Absa , the South African banking group , said its integration with new majority-owner Barclays was proceeding well as it announced a jump in its interim profit .
unused1 The country 's biggest retail bank saw pre-tax profit for the six months ending September 30 rise from R3.33bn to R4.12bn ( Pounds 360m ) .
unused1 The strong performance allowed Absa to lift its interim dividend by 68.4 per cent to 160 cents a share .
unused1 The banks have estimated the implementation costs for the merger at R1.8bn.
The merger will see Absa extend its reach into sub-Saharan Africa by acquiring nine of Barclays ' operations on the continent outside South Africa .
unused1 It has the most customers of any South African bank - 7.5m , up from 7m six months earlier .
Absa lifted its interim dividend by 68.4 per cent to 160 cents a share .
Just two paragraphs long , Unilever ' s overnight profit warning may have been brief but its effects were wide , writes Bryce Elder .
Barclays saw SABMiller and Coca-Cola HBC among the most vulnerable , seeing 2014 earnings downgrades of up to 10 per cent and potential downside for the stocks of around 25 per cent and 45 per cent , respectively .
unused1 EasyJet was up 3.1 per cent to pound(s)13.18. helped by Redburn " buy " advice , while IAG was up 1.7 per cent to 344p .
In a buoyant insurance sector , Aviva was up 2.8 per cent to 408.1p after Merrill Lynch repeated a " buy " recommendation .
But he is under pressure from some investors to leave earlier Auditors PwC What they wo n't want to answer How Unilever managed to report such strong first-quarter results .
unused1 Analysts remain sceptical about Unilever 's ability to sustain sales growth , and say the company is not disclosing enough information to present a clear picture of underlying sales and margin trends What 's the food like ?
unused1 Biofuels ' results for the year to March 31 , published yesterday , showed a pre-tax loss of Pounds 32m ( Pounds 74.4m ) .
unused1 Barclays raised its target on Deutsche Lufthansa from EUR10.25 to EUR11.50 with an " equal weight " outlook .
unused1 Barclays also lifted its target on Air France-KLM from EUR4 to EUR6.30 with an " equal weight " outlook .
Budget carrier Ryanair , which recently endured heavy selling , received a fillip as Barclays increased its price target from EUR4.40 to EUR4.95.
International Airlines Group was the only airline to maintain an " overweight " outlook .
Chemical makers and industrial companies were under pressure after profit warnings from 3M and Du Pont .
Newly floated Direct Line slipped 1.9 per cent to 189.3p after Nomura started coverage with a " reduce " rating and 174p target - a penny below its flotation price .
A profit warning carried Mulberry 23.8 per cent lower at pound(s)10.06 , with the handbag maker blaming tougher overseas markets and the cost of reining in its wholesale distributors .
" Buy " advice from UBS helped N Brown , the catalogue retailer , rise 2 per cent to 324.4p.
unused1 It had been hoped that his promotion from brand director would have breathed some life into flagging sales at the clothing retailer , which will now face increased bid speculation .
Annual profits up 63 % at BHP *Mining giant predicts the bull run will continue *Investors unimpressed by Dollars 3bn share buy-back
BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest mining group , yesterday forecast an extended commodities bull run on the back of supply shortages and strong growth in demand , as it reported record earnings and announced a Dollars 3bn ( Pounds 1.6bn ) share buy-back .
BHP said that annual net profits rose by 63 per cent to Dollars 10.45bn after a 77 per cent rise in second-half earnings .
The share buy-back will focus on BHP 's London-listed equity , which has been trading at a discount of about 5 per cent to the shares in Australia .
Credit Suisse First Boston maintained its outperform rating but conceded there was meat for the bearish view that Barclays ' overall revenue targets could be under pressure if its capital investment banking unit faltered .
Paladin firmed 2.6 per cent to 185 3/4p as Merrill Lynch raised its 2005 and 2006 earnings per share forecast by 11 per cent to 19.3p per share and 18p per share , respectively .
Man Group , the world 's largest hedge fund manager , rose 6.8 per cent to Pounds 13.06 as it increased its full-year dividend and was confident on its prospects .
Virgin Mobile rose 10.6 per cent to 232 1/4p as investors applauded plans for its maiden dividend payment .
unused1 The mobile network reseller also forecast mid-teen percentage growth in service revenue , far better than most analysts had expected in a tough UK market .
Charter , the engineering and machinery group , put on 7.6 per cent to 269p as it said first-quarter trading was ahead of expectations .
JJB Sports became the latest retailer to warn on the retailing environment , saying that total turnover in the 16 weeks to May 22 fell 7.5 per cent .
It also said it had followed all necessary regulatory and statutory procedures in its share placing for Regal Petroleum , only a couple of weeks before the oil explorer issued a profit warning .
Pilkington , the glassmaker , added 1.9 per cent to 118 3/4p as it raised its dividend for the first time in 10 years following cost- cutting .
The loss of a key music distribution contract with Tesco hit Woolworths ' share price , in spite of the general retailer reporting Christmas trading was better than expected .
unused1 Trevor Bish-Jones , chief executive , warned that profits next year would be Pounds 10m down as a result of Tesco changing the terms of a contract with Woolworth 's Entertainment UK venture , which supplies the UK 's largest supermarket group with music and films .
unused1 Strong performances in toys , stationery and computer games kept the underlying sales fall to 0.8 per cent .
unused1 This was considerably better than many analysts had expected , with Tony Shiret at Credit Suisse forecasting a fall of up to 3 per cent .
unused1 For the year to date , total sales are down 4.1 per cent and for the year to January 29 gross margins are likely to be slightly ahead of last year .
unused1 The company said full-year pre-tax profit would be at the upper end of forecasts , currently between Pounds 50m and Pounds 60m .
unused1 Mr Bish-Jones said : " It was a pretty difficultChristmas out there but our margin was up and sales held up pretty well .
unused1 About Pounds 17m is coming off profit before exceptional items and amortisation in 2005-06 , which was much larger than expected .
unused1 Earnings growth at Barclays certainly looks increasingly lopsided .
unused1 Profits at the retail bank rose 12 per cent to Pounds 612m .
unused1 Net new mortgage lending was negative in the first quarter .
At Barclaycard , profits fell 14 per cent to Pounds 297m due to rising bad debts .
Tesco revealed that its push into financial services had suffered twin setbacks on Wednesday , casting a shadow over a 12 per cent increase in first-half profit achieved in the face of tough UK trading conditions .
unused1 Clive Black and Darren Shirley , analysts at Shore Capital , said the " unwelcome surprises " at the banking arm undermined good news elsewhere in the results , saying UK profits and Asian performance had been better than expected .
unused1 Pre-tax profit from continuing operations in the 26 weeks to August 27 was pound(s)1.88bn , up 12 per cent from a year earlier .
unused1 Sales rose 8 per cent to pound(s)31.8bn.
unused1 Trading profit at Tesco 's UK supermarket arm - by far the biggest part of the group - rose 5 per cent to pound(s)1.27bn on sales that rose 6 per cent to pound(s)21.2bn.
unused1 However , when new stores were stripped out , sales were down 0.5 per cent for the half , excluding petrol sales and sales tax fluctuations .
unused1 This like-for-like sales decline accelerated over the period , hitting 0.9 per cent in the second quarter after a drop of 0.1 per cent in the first quarter .
unused1 Sales of " non-food " items such as electrical goods were particularly weak .
unused1 The retailer said the discounts would mean its UK profits would be broadly flat in the second half .
unused1 Trading profit rose 19 per cent year on year to pound(s)292m in Asia - aided by strong growth in China and Thailand - and increased 12 per cent to pound(s)237m in continental Europe .
The trading profit posted by Tesco 's banking arm fell 66 per cent year on year to pound(s)44m after the pound(s)57m PPI charge , which was in addition to a previous pound(s)35m provision .
unused1 Diluted earnings per share rose 14 per cent to 17.9p , while an interim dividend of 4.63p per share has been declared , up 6 per cent .
HSBC edged 0.1 per cent lower at 698 1/4 p following a downgrade to " underperform " from Exane BNP Paribas .
Rexam was up 3.4 per cent to 303 1/4 p after Merrill Lynch restarted coverage with a " buy " rating and 380p target price for the packaging maker .
Investors are being paid a 4 per cent dividend yield while they wait for Graham Chipchase , the new Rexam chief executive , to improve execution and cashflow , it said .
Upgrading the stock to " buy " , Goldman argued that a pick-up in Asian mergers and flotations this year would help provide a benchmark to value Prudential 's growth businesses in Indonesia , India and Vietnam .
Burberry led the blue-chip risers , up 8.3 per cent to 649p , after its Christmas quarter sales and earnings growth beat expectations .
Among the fallers , SABMiller slid 2.3 per cent to pound(s)17.79 after quarterly beer sales disappointed , largely on cold weather in China .
unused1 News analysis ; Investor reaction focused on a 31 per cent revenue decline at the investment banking division , writes Patrick Jenkins
Shares in Barclays , the UK 's second-largest bank by market capitalisation , fell 5 per cent yesterday in spite of healthy profits for the third quarter , an improved assessment of the outlook for loan losses and the reinstatement of its dividend after almost a year .
Analysts said the decline was a reaction to the one-third quarter-on-quarter fall in investment banking revenue to pound(s)3.7bn , although the Barclays Capital business , which was beefed up through the acquisition of the US operations of Lehman Brothers , contributed a third of group profits .
unused1 Huw van Steenis , analyst at Morgan Stanley , said : " BarCap had a strong start to the year but revenue has now fallen more sharply than at its peers , who were down by an average of just 4 per cent .
Barclays said pre-tax profits for the three months to the end of September were pound(s)1.56bn , compared with pound(s)1.61bn in the second quarter and pound(s)2.8bn a year ago .
unused1 Barclays is to pay a 1p dividend , the first since the final of 2008 was passed , from earnings per share of 7.8p.
Mr Lucas said the payout ratio would be higher in future , but would remain substantially below the 50 per cent that Barclays has traditionally distributed .
unused1 The bank said first-half headline pre-tax profits fell 71 per cent to pound(s)759m .
unused1 The steep fall in Barclays ' statutory pre-tax profit was mainly attributable to a pound(s)2.95bn " own credit " accounting loss on the fluctuating value of its issued debt .
unused1 However , on an underlying basis that excludes the " own credit " accounting distortion and other items , first-half pre-tax profit rose 13 per cent to pound(s)4.23bn , ahead of analysts ' average forecast of pound(s)3.82bn.
unused1 Dividends will be held in respect of this financial year , so shareholders should receive a 1p per share interim dividend in September , another 1p in early December and a 3.5p final dividend next March .
unused1 Thereafter , dividends will be 40-50 per cent of post-tax earnings - compared to 15-20 per cent now .
Analysts at Citigroup issued a " sell " recommendation , arguing that a takeover of ABN Amro at Euros 33 a share was " inconsistent with the group 's stated target of a return commensurate with the risk and well in excess of the cost of capital " .
unused1 While the bank 's first quarter performance disappointed , outperformance in the previous quarter suggested it had not lost market share , he added .
HSBC repeated an " overweight " rating on Rio Tinto , up 3.5 per cent to pound(s)29.09 , and on Anglo American , ahead 2.6 per cent to pound(s)24.79.
The broker also moved from " underweight " to " neutral " on Xstrata , up 6.4 per cent to 950p .
unused1 Recent guidance from customers such as Whirlpool were positive omens , said Evolution Securities in a " buy " note .
unused1 Goldman Sachs set a 544p price target and kept " sell " advice in response to the utility 's plans to raise pound(s)3.3bn via a rights issue .
unused1 The bank , which paid $4.5bn for a majority stake in Absa in 2005 , is proposing to merge most of its own-branded African operations into the Johannesburg-based group .
Absa had a sharp fall in profits in the first half of this year following a jump in credit impairments on South African mortgages and adverse currency movements .
unused1 In June it issued a profit warning highlighting a rise in bad debt charges .
Santander , which saw investment sales double between 2007 and 2009 to pound(s)3.5bn , and Royal Bank of Scotland are both investing heavily to train their branch-based advisers to the new level required under the retail distribution review .
unused1 Forecast earnings growth for Absa of 12 per cent a year to 2008 - before any synergies - should cushion rand movements .
unused1 But first-quarter results from Barclays Capital and Deutsche 's investment bank yesterday , both stronger than Credit Suisse 's comparable figures the day before , show they are faring better than their regional peers - or , at least , not as badly , for now .
Consider BarCap 's performance in fixed income , currencies and commodities , where revenue rose 9 per cent to pound(s)2.4bn from a year ago .
That suggests BarCap is maintaining , even increasing , its share .
unused1 Or take the unit 's equities revenue , up just 1 per cent .
Yet that makes BarCap and Morgan Stanley the only investment banks to report an increase so far .
unused1 Overall , revenue at the UK lender 's wholesale bank climbed 3 per cent , compared with Deutsche 's 11 per cent decline , itself in line with JPMorgan Chase 's comparable revenue drop .
Deutsche 's FICC machine , meanwhile , generated income of EUR3.4bn , 8 per cent lower than a year ago but still trumping its UK rival by EUR500m .
That may be less than the one-fifth FICC decline at Credit Suisse , but US peers ' equivalent revenues rose 5 per cent .
unused1 It was a different story in equities , however : the German investment bank 's revenue slid 23 per cent , although at EUR726m it was still higher than Barclays ' number .
In 2007 , the Lehman debt and equity underwriting and merger advice business alone generated $4bn in revenue , ranking it ninth globally , according to Dealogic .
The pound(s)4bn profit ascribed to the investment bank makes it Barclays ' largest segment , pound(s)1bn ahead of the retail and business banking .
Merger speculation lifted European equity markets yesterday after talks between ABN Amro and Barclays heightened expectations of further consolidation in the banking sector .
Deutsche Postbank , the German retail bank , gained 2.7 per cent to Euros 61.93 after releasing fourth-quarter profits and guidance for 2007 that pleased the market .
unused1 Deutsche Bank , Germany 's biggest financial services group , gained 1.7 per cent to Euros 95.68 after upgrades from Citigroup , from " hold " to " buy " , and Credit Suisse , from " neutral " to " outperform " .
Tui , the German travel agency , gained 9.6 per cent to Euros 18.10 after announcingit would merge its tour operating business with thatof First Choice Holidays of the UK .
" We regard the deal as a sensible reaction to the recent merger of Thomas Cook and MyTravel , " said Frank Skodzik at WestLB .
Kuoni , the Swiss travel company , gained 2.4 per cent to SFr729 after UBS raised its price target on the stock from SFr635 to SFr725 after last week 's announcement of record full-year net profits and proposed dividend of SFr15 a share .
Spanish tobacco group Altadis rose 6.4 per cent to Euros 46.55 as it held out for higher bids after it on Friday rejected a Euros 45- a-share offer from Imperial Tobacco , of the UK .
Barclays ' first-quarter profit surged by almost 47 per cent , yet its shares slid by more than 6 per cent yesterday .
In part , the strong fixed income , currencies and commodities ( FICC ) performances from Goldman Sachs , JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank had stoked expectations that Barclays Capital would also shoot the lights out .
But instead , BarCap 's revenue was down 26 per cent on last year , and top-line income from FICC was almost 40 per cent lower , compared with the roughly 10 per cent fall at other investment banks .
Credit Suisse 's recent first-quarter results disappointed for much the same reason .
Although Barclays ' pre-tax profits rose by 47 per cent to pound(s)1.8bn , helped by a sharp fall in impairments , BarCap accounted for more than four-fifths of them .
Given that the market conditions of the first two quarters of last year are unlikely to be repeated , another way to see BarCap 's revenue decline is as setting a more normal quarterly run-rate of pound(s)3.5bn-pound(s)4bn , Credit Suisse notes .
For a bank that has had a tricky year in its core UK retail business , Barclays ' 15 per cent jump in full year pre-tax profits looks impressive .
This does not mean that all in the domestic garden is rosy : performance was shored up by strong earnings growth at Barclays Capital , the investment banking arm , and BGI , the global fund management business .
unused1 And , excluding its South African acquisition Absa , growth drops to
A rise in bad debt provisions helped depress earnings on Barclaycard , but that trend should slow this year .
unused1 Yet the investment bank 's fixed income , commodities and currencies unit has delivered a lacklustre performance in the first quarter .
unused1 Revenue fell by more than a fifth from a year ago to pound(s)2.1bn.
unused1 Its equity business , comprising the former northern American operations of Lehman Brothers , also disappointed , achieving only an 11 per cent increase in revenue for a business that must bear heavy hiring costs .
Overall , BarCap 's revenue fell 15 per cent from a year ago .
unused1 Given the 8.1 per cent achieved in the normally strong first quarter , that looks like a stretch .
unused1 Earnings recovery , and the ability to generate capital internally , could take longer than expected - earnings forecasts for 2013 are a fifth lower than they were two years ago .
Yet despite this uncertainty Barclays has become more generous on dividends , pledging to pay more , and sooner .
unused1 Yesterday 's third-quarter numbers show growth slowly coming through .
unused1 The problem business in the third quarter was the investment bank , dragged back by a slowdown in fixed income trading .
unused1 Profits from the division were pound(s)463m , 45 per cent below the average quarterly level over the past two years .
unused1 Earnings at Barclays Capital will show a rise of 64 per cent in the first quarter thanks to lower credit-market writedowns , Citi analyst Leigh Goodwin forecast .
unused1 For the full year , Citi forecast Barclays to report earnings of 37.9p per share , some 20 per cent above the current consensus .
Shares in Barclays ended higher by 2.4 per cent to 371p as Citi repeated " buy " advice with a 470p target .
Royal Bank of Scotland gained 4 per cent to 58p ahead of its annual shareholder meeting tomorrow , while Lloyds Banking Group rose 2.7 per cent to 70 1/4 p before its first-quarter update due this morning .
An upgrade to " outperform " from Exane BNP Paribas helped Wolseley gain 2.4 per cent to pound(s)16.98 , with the broker citing strengthening construction trends on both sides of the Atlantic .
Invensys rose 4.3 per cent to 340p after Whirlpool , a leading customer for its controls division , lifted its 2010 profit forecast .
Among the fallers , BSkyB lost 2.2 per cent to 616p after Jefferies International cut the stock from its " buy " list .
Chloride , the maker of uninterruptible power supplies , led the mid-caps with a 42 per cent gain at 297p after it rejected a 275p a share bid from Emerson Electric .
Bodycote was up 5.5 per cent to 241 1/2 p in response , while IMI added 5.8 per cent to 734 1/2 p as Panmure Gordon lifted its target price to 930p .
TalkTalk , formerly Carphone Warehouse 's telecoms arm , climbed 4 per cent to 130 1/2 p after Exane BNP Paribas set a 180p target price based on takeover hopes .
F&C Asset Management lost 0.5 per cent to 68p on fears it will lose the management contract for the F&C Commercial Property Trust , which said on Friday it would merge with Ignis-run peer UK Commercial Property Trust .
unused1 Merrill Lynch has raised its target price on BG to Pounds 12 after lifting its long-term crude price forecast by Dollars 10 to Dollars 70 a barrel .
unused1 The Merrill upgrade lent support to Tullow Oil , up 0.7 per cent to 675 1/2p .
Housebuilder Persimmon slid 4.7 per cent to 785p after ABN Amro lowered its 2008 earnings per share estimate to 113p .
unused1 Deutsche Bank forecast Ashmore would suffer its first quarter-on-quarter decline in assets under management in two years , with the broker cutting its assets estimate by 5 per cent to $63.7bn.
Fashion retailer SuperGroup lost 2.6 per cent to 695p after Shore Capital started coverage with a " sell " rating .
However , Mothercare bounced 9.2 per cent to 210 1/4 p after the retailer parted company with its chief executive less than a week after delivering a profit warning .
Debenhams rose 1.5 per cent to 65 1/4 p on speculation it may launch a share buy-back .
unused1 Morgan Stanley raised its rating to " overweight " on hopes of a " Next-style " cash return .
unused1 CSR was down 5.8 per cent to 183 1/2 p after Citigroup cut the communications chipmaker to " sell " .
Barclays stamped out rumours that it could issue fresh equity and presented better-than-expected third-quarter profits on Tuesday , pushing the bank 's share price up and closing the valuation gap with rivals .
Overall , Barclays posted a pre-tax profit of pound(s)327m for the third quarter , compared with pound(s)1.4bn a year earlier .
unused1 Stripping out charges relating to the value of its own debt , profit fell 28 per cent to pound(s)1.3bn.
unused1 Barclays has made an offer to buy the wealth management business of ING in France for an undisclosed sum .
The UK 's third-largest bank is to acquire ING Ferri and ING Private Banking , subject to consultations with employees .
unused1 It will increase the number of Barclays ' customers in France by 25 per cent .
Barclays has been looking to increase the proportion of profit that it generates from outside the UK .
A year ago , Barclays acknowledged the suffering of its shareholders as it skipped a final dividend and regretted the fall in its share price .
unused1 Yesterday , announcing a near doubling of group pre-tax profit to pound(s)11.6bn in 2009 , the banking group talked about how it could contribute to society .
Underlying pre-tax profit rose from pound(s)1.6bn in 2008 to pound(s)5.6bn - a percentage increase even better than the headline number , boosted by the sale of Barclays Global Investors to BlackRock .
unused1 Greatly improved by the BGI disposal , return on equity was 24 per cent .
unused1 Several divisions , including UK retail banking , made less profit than in 2008 but profit at Barclays Capital rose 89 per cent to pound(s)2.46bn.
Lonmin led blue-chip stocks higher , rising 3.2 per cent to pound(s)19.11 after Investec added the stock to its " buy " list based on management 's gradual turnround .
However , we believe the market is looking through near-term issues and is valuing Lonmin on its long-term potential , " said Investec , which set a pound(s)20.75 price target .
Vedanta Resources added 2.5 per cent to pound(s)24.45 on the back of a Goldman Sachs upgrade to " buy " .
unused1 Research house Omni started coverage of the stock with a " sell , " arguing that exploration news would be sparse before 2011 and takeover theories looked doubtful .
unused1 Following in-line results on Tuesday , Tui Travel rebounded by 2.1 per cent to 248 1/2 p as brokers including Citigroup and Merrill Lynch repeated " buy " advice .
Vodafone rose 2.2 per cent to 143p after Credit Suisse raised its target price to 160p based on European trading beating expectations .
unused1 U-turn comes as bank posts 9 % fall in profits
unused1 The bank detailed the U-turn on Wednesday as it reported a 9 per cent fall in profits for the first quarter of 2011 .
Barclays had said previously it was comfortable with analysts ' consensus expectations for pound(s)7bn of underlying pre-tax profit this year .
Barclays made a pre-tax profit of pound(s)1.66bn in the first quarter , down 9 per cent on the same period in 2010 .
unused1 Stripping out the effect of acquisitions , disposals and fluctuations in the value of its own debt , adjusted pre-tax profit was pound(s)2bn , up 10 per cent .
Between them Barclays , HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland benefited from almost pound(s)10bn ( $16bn ) of one-off credit gains in the three months to September , compared with about pound(s)2.7bn of losses in the same period a year earlier .
Five big US investment banks - Citigroup , Bank of America , JPMorgan , Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs - revealed gains equivalent to more than four-fifths of their combined $16bn in net profits for the third quarter .
UBS , the Swiss bank hit by a $2.3bn alleged rogue-trading scandal , reported a net profit after a higher than expected SFr1.77bn ( pound(s)1.22bn ) credit gain bolstered its figures .
There could be further credit card portfolio deals , similar to last month 's pound(s)2bn acquisition of the Egg business , and the pound(s)130m purchase on Monday of small business balances from MBNA .
unused1 " We believe the combination of reduced returns and a smaller balance sheet could dramatically reduce Barclays ' earnings power . "
Shares in Barclays ended 2.7 per cent weaker at 174p after Goldman cut the stock to " sell " with a 200p target .
Ahead of results on Thursday , Glencore International fell 2.6 per cent to 428 1/2 p after its closest peer Noble reported its first quarterly loss in 14 years .
ITV rose 3.3 per cent to 65 3/4 p after its third-quarter results beat expectations , in spite of a weaker outlook for advertising sales .
Smith & Nephew put on 2.6 per cent to 572 1/2 p , helped by an upgrade from Exane BNP Paribas .
unused1 Setting a 700p target , Exane argued that the shares had fallen to an " unjustifiable " discount to US peers given improving earnings visibility .
Smiths Group rose 0.8 per cent to 954 1/2 p on continued speculation that Apax may make a second bid for its medical business .
unused1 Smiths shares have fallen 30 per cent since January , when the group rejected Apax 's pound(s)2.45bn bid for the unit .
unused1 UBS , which downgraded Premier to " sell " with a 2p share price target , argued that creditors had moved in front of shareholders in the queue for cash flow .
unused1 Morgan Stanley cut earnings forecasts by 28 per cent , to reflect deteriorating trading in France as well as Kesa 's disposal of Comet .
Hikma Pharmaceuticals lost 2.7 per cent to 639p after UBS cut earnings forecasts .
As well as taking a more cautious view of revenue growth and margin assumptions for Hikma 's existing businesses , UBS highlighted that Hikma 's recent acquisition of Morocco-based Promopharm was paid for by debt raised in Dubai so would not be eligible for a debt tax shield .
unused1 A fall in like-for-like sales in October overshadowed interim results that were in line with forecasts .
unused1 After including a Pounds 700m benefit from the revaluation of the bank 's own debt , Barclays Capital , Barclays ' investment banking arm , was profitable in the first quarter .
unused1 The UK 's third-largest high street bank also said operating costs in the third quarter rose across most of its business units as it continued to invest in fast-growing areas .
Barclays expected pre-tax profit for 2005 will be " broadly " in line with market forecasts of Pounds 5.18bn.
Barclaycard also saw a growth in income but this was more than offset by investment in Juniper , its US card operation , and by continued bad debt charges .
unused1 *The expectation that Barclays would issue a positive trading update has sent shares up 16 per cent over the past six weeks .
unused1 However , group investment continues to act as a drag on profit growth .
unused1 The writedown , which was partly offset by an pound(s)852m gain from revaluing the bank 's own debt , was largely responsible for the drop in the bank 's pre-tax profits , which fell 33 per cent to pound(s)2.75bn.
Barclays shares closed at 375p , up 6p , as the bank indicated it was likely to maintain its cash dividend payment for the full year .
unused1 First-half profits at the investment banking division fell almost 30 per cent year-on-year , after revenues slipped at its core fixed-income , currency and commodities division .
unused1 Overall pre-tax profits fell by a third in the first half , largely owing to the one-off PPI charge .
unused1 Stripping out the charge as well as accounting issues related to the value of its own debt , pre-tax profit rose 24 per cent to pound(s)3.68bn - of which 63 per cent came from BarCap .
unused1 " On our forecasts pre-tax profit would be pound(s)2bn short of where it needs to be in 2013 to meet the target returns . "
Revenue was relatively flat at Barclaycard and at the UK retail business , which along with BarCap are viewed by Mr Diamond as the bank 's three " top tier " businesses .
At Barclays Wealth , hailed by Mr Diamond as a key growth area , pre-tax profits fell 7 per cent as investment in the business wiped out a 12 per cent increase in revenues .
unused1 Meanwhile charges related to closing parts of the troubled Spanish business pushed the European operation into a pound(s)161m loss , compared with a pound(s)10m pre-tax profit a year ago .
unused1 " We expect Barclays will record major losses in 2009 and 2010 , " he said .
" In a sector where support lines appear to be based around these metrics [ irrespective of earnings ] , Aviva simply looks too high in comparison with sector peers , " said Deutsche Bank , which cut the stock from its " buy " list .
Tullow Oil outperformed , drifting only 0.8 per cent to 709 1/2 p following reports that it had rejected informal takeover approaches from Chinese companies including Sinopec .
Rolls-Royce was down 7.8 per cent to 262 1/4 p after Bernstein Research started coverage with an " underperform " rating and 250p target price .
ITV was down 6.4 per cent to 22p as analysts cut profit forecasts .
unused1 Large provisions to settle mis-selling claims and a charge on the value of its own debt helped drag the bank to a quarterly pre-tax loss of pound(s)47m in the third quarter , down from a profit of pound(s)2.42bn a year earlier .
unused1 Large provisions to settle mis-selling claims and a charge on the value of its own debt helped drag the bank to a quarterly pre-tax loss of pound(s)47m in the third quarter , down from a profit of pound(s)2.42bn a year earlier .
unused1 Large provisions to settle mis-selling claims and a charge on the value of its own debt helped drag the bank to a quarterly pre-tax loss of pound(s)47m in the third quarter , down from a profit of pound(s)2.42bn a year earlier .
Downgrades from Investec and Merrill Lynch sent Kingfisher down 2 per cent to 244 1/2 p ahead of a trading update next week .
unused1 The stock was also helped by Merrill Lynch research looking at BT 's programmes to pay down its debt and pension deficit .
Pump maker Weir Group rose 2.8 per cent to pound(s)17.56 after a recommendation from Morgan Stanley , which set a pound(s)20 target price .
Telecity , the data warehouse , jumped 6.2 per cent to 741 1/2 p on " buy " advice from Collins Stewart with a 560p price target .
Ocado , the grocery delivery business , rose 4.1 per cent to 151p as a theory about takeover interest from Morrison supermarkets helped put the squeeze on short sellers .
Betfair lost 4.8 per cent to pound(s)14 after UBS started coverage with a " sell " rating .
Imperial Tobacco drifted 1.5 per cent to Pounds 22.15 on concerns that Spain 's Altadis would hold out for an offer above Euros 50 a share .
Regus added 5.1 per cent to 143 1/4p after Goldman Sachs slapped a 190p target price on the serviced offices group .
Travis Perkins , the builders ' merchant , rose 4.5 per cent to Pounds 20.59 on the back of a Citigroup upgrade to " buy " .
unused1 The broker said its raised target price of Pounds 22.35 reflected expectations of strong trading in the first half of 2007 and recovery at its Wickes division .
unused1 The UK 's third-largest bank yesterday reported a 20 per cent jump in 2004 pre-tax profits to Pounds 4.6bn ( Pounds 3.8bn ) .
Barclays Capital saw profits rise 25 per cent to Pounds 1.04bn ( Pounds 836m ) , helped by a 41 per cent jump in dealing profits to Pounds 1.5bn.
Higher funding costs and international investment at Barclaycard led to more muted growth where profits rose 5 per cent to Pounds 801m .
unused1 The dividend is 24p ( 20.5p ) payable from earnings per share of 51.2p ( 42.3p ) .
unused1 The UK-based bank reported on first-quarter trading without launching a rights issue or announcing other measures to raise fresh equity capital .
unused1 However , he did rule out paying shareholders dividends in shares rather than cash as a means of raising equity , as some banks have done .
Even Barclays Capital , the investment banking business , had turned a profit so far in 2008 .
Aviva lost 4.7 per cent to 267.7p on mixed first-quarter figures .
unused1 Investors were disappointed the insurer would take until the end of the year to find a new chief executive , while some analysts interpreted comments on building balance sheet strength as raising the chances of a dividend cut .
unused1 Goldman Sachs took African Barrick off its " sell " list on valuation grounds .
Icap rose 1.6 per cent to 342p a day after results , with UBS upgrading the inter-dealer broker from " sell " to " neutral " .
TalkTalk bounced 19.8 per cent to 159p after it raised a long-term earnings target and committed to dividend growth of at least 15 per cent annually for the next two years .
Kesa Electricals sunk 13.6 per cent to 46.8p on expectations the retailer would cut its dividend next month .
unused1 Analysts saw the tax guidance as cutting earnings by about 15 per cent .
Among small caps , retailer French Connection dropped 24.1 per cent to 30p on a profit warning .
unused1 The airline slipped 4.1 per cent to pound(s)11.84 even after its passenger statistics for May matched expectations .
DIY retailer Kingfisher lost 2.6 per cent to 336.8p after Numis Securities downgraded to " hold " on valuation grounds .
Auto catalyst maker Johnson Matthey led the FTSE risers , up 6.3 per cent to pound(s)27.50 , on better than expected annual earnings .
BT Group was up 2.6 per cent to 301.7p after Liberum Securities raised its price target to 345p .
Buy advice from HSBC helped lift ICAP , which rose 1.7 per cent to 368p , and helped Tullett Prebon to outperform the wider market with a 0.6 per cent decline to 284.3p.
A profit warning sent BATM Advanced Communications down 21.3 per cent to 15.75p.
A reassuring trading update helped Travis Perkins add 8 per cent to 865p with the builders ' merchant reporting no signs of sales growth weakening .
Amlin , the Lloyds insurer , jumped 8 per cent to 312 1/4 p on " buy " advice from Citigroup .
Miners were weak after Alcoa posted a wider-than-expected quarterly loss .
GlaxoSmithKline slipped 0.8 per cent to pound(s)12.94 amid renewed speculation it was on the acquisition trail .
News that Hewlett-Packard was preparing a $10bn takeover offer for the software maker came too late for London traders to react .
unused1 UBS forecast that Dixons ' same-store sales will have dropped 7 per cent for the quarter .
unused1 Seymour Pierce , downgrading to " sell " , said it would have to look at strategic options , such as closing Argos stores , to ease pressure on its balance sheet .
unused1 Regus dropped 15.8 per cent to 67 1/4 p after Goldman Sachs cut the office rental group off its " buy " list and slashed earnings forecasts .
Cosalt has said it will use the sale proceeds to reduce debt .
unused1 The UK bank detailed the U-turn on Wednesday as it reported a 10 per cent year-on-year increase in underlying profit for the first quarter of 2011 .
Analysts said the Protium affair - and the obscurity surrounding it - had damaged Barclays ' reputation , but said the more concerning news was on the outlook for earnings .
Whereas Barclays had previously said it was comfortable with analysts ' consensus expectations for pound(s)7bn of annual profit this year , on Wednesday management said that number , while still correct , did not include an estimated pound(s)400m hit from the UK bank levy .
Barclays made a pre-tax profit of pound(s)1.66bn during the January to March period , down 9 per cent on the same period a year earlier .
unused1 Stripping out the effect of acquisitions , disposals and fluctuations in the value of its own debt , adjusted pre-tax profit was pound(s)2bn , up 10 per cent .
But Barclays Capital , the investment banking business and engine of the group 's profitability , disappointed , with underlying pre-tax profit slipping from pound(s)1.57bn to pound(s)1.33bn.
unused1 The Barclays ' acquisition of Absa is South Africa 's largest inward investment since the end of apartheid 11 years ago .
unused1 It is also Barclays ' biggest acquisition since it bought Woolwich Building Society in 2000 and the first deal under John Varley , new chief executive .
unused1 Barclays , which was the biggest bank in South Africa before it pulled out 18 years ago due to anti-apartheid protests , is paying R82.50 per share plus a R2 dividend .
Barclays said the move is immediately accretive to earnings per share .
Barclays quarterly profits rise to pound(s)2.4bn
Barclays provided some welcome news for investors ahead of what is set to be a stormy annual meeting today as it revealed a sharp rise in underlying first-quarter profits .
unused1 A near doubling of income at its investment banking business helped pre-tax profits rise a fifth to pound(s)2.45bn , once a pound(s)300m provision for mis-sold loan insurance and a large negative swing in the value of its own debt were stripped out .
unused1 Including those factors , the bank fell into a pre-tax loss of pound(s)475m , compared with a pound(s)1.7bn profit in the first three months of 2011 .
Analysts highlighted the strong rebound of Barclays ' investment banking , particularly the fixed-income , currencies and commodities business , where income was more than double that of the final quarter of 2011 .
unused1 The corporate division also recovered strongly - pre-tax profits rose 10-fold - on the back of lower impairment losses in Spain and a one-off credit gain .
unused1 Mr Diamond and Chris Lucas , finance director , have promised to give up half their deferred 2011 bonuses if the bank failed to boost returns and they pledged to increase dividends as its performance improved .
unused1 The first-quarter dividend remained at 1p per share , which Mr Lucas said was " appropriate " given the market uncertainty .
Barclays has indicated that estimates for cost savings and revenue benefits from its planned takeover of ABN Amro were conservative , as a record quarter from its investment banking division helped it report a strong start to the year .
The British bank , which is competing for control of ABN Amro with a consortium led by Royal Bank of Scotland , had previously indicated that the Euros 63bn ( Pounds 43bn ) takeover would deliver Euros 3.5bn in synergies by 2010 .
Separately , Barclays said pre-tax profits rose 15 per cent in the first quarter , helped by a record performance from its Barclays Capital investment banking division and proceeds from the sale of some properties .
unused1 Excluding the sale-and-leaseback transactions , pre- tax profits rose 10 per cent .
Europe 's banking industry has been gripped by take-over fever after the recent acquisition of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro , the Italian lender , by BNP Paribas of France .
unused1 International earnings will also grow in 2006 through the inclusion of a full 12 months ' profits from Absa , the South African bank Barclays bought last year .
Barclays yesterday reported pre-tax profits of Pounds 5.28bn for 2005 , an increase of 15 per cent over the previous year , as growth at Barcap and BGI compensated for lower profits at its Barclaycard credit card division and sluggish growth at Barclays ' UK retail bank .
Absa unveiled a 21 per cent rise in profit for the nine months to December 31 as a healthy economy and low interest rates boosted customer numbers .
However , Barclays bucked that trend yesterday , slipping 1.1 per cent to 649 1/2p as Fox-Pitt , Kelton reiterated its " underperform " rating on the stock ahead of the bank 's full-year results on February 21 .
BHP Billiton climbed 0.8 per cent to 962p on record first-half profits and news of a Dollars 2bn share buyback .
Smiths Group rose 1.8 per cent to 944 1/2p amid speculation that Honeywell of the US was running the rule over the engineering company .
BAA made headway as investors awaited a potential bid from Spain 's Ferrovial for the airports operator , which could be valued at Pounds 15bn including debt .
unused1 Numis Securities upped its stance on the stock from " hold " to " add " and said the litigation had weighed on the stock .
Colt Telecom fell 2.5 per cent to 67 3/4p after Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein cut its rating from " buy " to " hold " and said that investor expectations had risen too high ahead of its fourth- quarter results due on February 23 .
Cattles , the consumer lending group , rose 5.2 per cent to 328 1/ 4p after Citigroup initiated coverage with a " buy " rating and a 385p target price .
Media group Emap rose 2.1 per cent to 910p after Morgan Stanley raised its price target on the stock to Pounds 10 from 900p and said its low rating could attract a bid approach .
Shares in Barclays , the UK 's second largest bank by market capitalisation , fell 5 per cent yesterday in spite of healthy profits for the third quarter , an improved assessment of the outlook for loan losses and the reinstatement of a dividend after almost a year .
Analysts said the decline was a reaction to the one-third quarter-on-quarter fall in investment banking revenues to pound(s)3.7bn ( $6.1bn ) , although the Barclays Capital business , which was beefed up significantly over the past year through the acquisition of the US operations of Lehman Brothers , contributed a third of group profits .
Huw van Steenis , analyst at Morgan Stanley , said : " BarCap had a strong start to the year but revenue has now fallen more sharply than at its peers , who were down by an average of just 4 per cent .
Barclays said pre-tax profits for the three months to the end of September were pound(s)1.56bn , compared with pound(s)1.61bn in the second quarter and pound(s)2.8bn a year ago .
Barclays is to pay a 1 pence per share dividend , the first since the final dividend of 2008 was passed , from earnings of 7.8p.
Barclays showed its continued dependency on investment banking as a rise in the unit 's profits cushioned a 25 per cent fall in group returns in the first quarter .
unused1 Profits in the investment banking arm accounted for three quarters of adjusted pre-tax profit of pound(s)1.79bn after rising by 11 per cent in the first three months .
unused1 In response , UBS upgraded Barclays to " buy " with a 208p target price .
Hargreaves Lansdown bounced 17.7 per cent to 508 1/2 p after the broker delivered in-line annual results and said it saw no reason why a regulatory review would materially affect its revenue or profit .
unused1 " If Imperial follows , it could boost operating profit by 3.5-4 per cent in a full year , " said Citigroup .
unused1 Nomura took the stock off its " buy " list based on " a weak macroeconomic environment for the UK for 2012 and beyond " .
unused1 Shore Capital cut the stock off its " buy " list , arguing that fare hikes and rising unemployment may hurt its UK rail operations .
An upgrade to " buy " from Numis Securities helped lift Telecity by 5 per cent to 572 1/2 p.
Deutsche Bank , repeating " buy " advice on C&W , said it was " looking very hopeful that the current onerous regulatory environment can be properly resolved " .
Among small caps , Namakwa Diamonds slumped 61.3 per cent to 10 1/2 p after warning that a $30m debt facility was no longer available on the original terms .
unused1 But with risk-weighted assets up 20 per cent in the first six months of 2005 and revenues increasing by 14 per cent , this is an increasingly apt description .
unused1 Return on equity is a fat 23 per cent and this half 's Pounds 2.7bn pre-tax result was well ahead of expectations .
unused1 Yet while BarCap increased profits by a fifth in the first half , HSBC 's investment bank saw an 18 per cent decline .
And Barclays will keep the dividend growing even as it rebuilds its capital ratios following the Absa acquisition .
unused1 Given its momentum , a 2006 multiple of 10 times earnings looks attractive .
A poor performance for Barclays Capital , the cost of the UK bank levy and the likely non-recurrence of a hedging gain seen in the previous quarter meant profit forecasts were too high , Merrill Lynch said .
unused1 Morgan Stanley , repeating a 420p target , said Cairn could partner Statoil in Greenland to gain access to cheaper rigs .
unused1 " While the market is anticipating a positive outcome , we believe the reversal of the prior year drag from lower toll rates could provide further upside for 2012 profits , " said Investec Securities .
unused1 Vague bid speculation was doing the rounds , as was a rumour that earnings due on Thursday would impress .
unused1 Merrill saw Vodafone 's dividend as secure and played down concerns about price deflation , arguing that pricing remained firm in the US market , which provides about half of Vodafone 's earnings .
Randgold Resources was the biggest gainer among the mining stocks , up 2.2 per cent to pound(s)75.65 , after doubling its 2011 dividend and beating forecasts with fourth-quarter earnings .
Among the fallers , Glencore International and Xstrata were weak in response to reports that the former would offer a slim premium of 2.8 shares to buy the latter .
unused1 " A prolonged corporate governance dispute could frustrate the group 's growth and refinancing goals , " said Nomura Securities , which downgraded Bumi to " neutral " .
Polymetal had suffered capital expenditure overruns on a similar project and , if combined with a weak gold price , Petropavlovsk 's net debt could be pushed to 2.5 times operating profit , said RenCap .
Hays , the subject last week of vague bid talk , fell 3.2 per cent to 83p after Seymour Pierce added the staffer to its " sell " list .
Fashion retailer SuperGroup was 6.2 per cent higher at 703p on the back of an upgrade to " buy " from Oriel Securities .
Among small caps , French Connection dropped a further 12.1 per cent to 51p in response to a profit warning from the clothes retailer late on Friday .
unused1 Barclays has owned assets in the Caribbean since 1925 when its international operations were created from the merger of three banks .
unused1 The acquisition would give CIBC control of FirstCaribbean with a stake of 87.4 per cent .
Risk aversion on sovereign debt concerns made for a weak second quarter at Barclays Capital , Morgan Stanley said .
unused1 It forecast underlying profit at the division to have halved in the second quarter as sales fell 17 per cent from the previous quarter to around pound(s)3.2bn.
unused1 Based on normalised earnings , it set a 400p price target .
Product testing specialist Intertek added 4 per cent to pound(s)16.40 on the back of " buy " advice from Merrill Lynch , with the broker raising its target price to pound(s)16.40.
Compass Group rose 2.2 per cent to 552 1/2 p after Citigroup started coverage with a " buy " rating based on its " defensive growth " outside Europe and higher margins than peer Sodexo .
Among the mid-caps , engineering group GKN rose 1.8 per cent to 132 3/4 p after BMW raised earnings guidance .
The broker kept a " reduce " rating on Barclays , along with Lloyds , down 2.8 per cent to 88.2p , and Royal Bank of Scotland , off 7.3 per cent to 20.4p.
unused1 Nomura also cut HSBC to " neutral " , citing a rapid deterioration in emerging markets led by Central Europe and Russia .
unused1 Merrill Lynch strategists downgraded the insurance sector to " neutral " .
British Airways lost 3.4 per cent to 116.1p on concerns that Iberia 's biggest shareholder , Caja Madrid , is fighting BA 's attempts to renegotiate their merger .
HSBC set a 140p price target on Wolseley , down 6.6 per cent to 161.3p.
Paypoint retreated 6.2 per cent to 420p after Numis started coverage with " sell " advice and a 360p target .
unused1 The US unit 's capital base was " thin " and it had reported falling earnings for the past two quarters , so its capacity to handle loan losses was difficult to predict , RiskMetrics warned .
unused1 Citigroup " buy " advice also helped BG , which was up 0.6 per cent to pound(s)10.91.
Legal & General found support on a revival of bid rumours , with Resolution once again mooted as the potential predator .
Elsewhere among the mid-caps , Brit Insurance gained 2.6 per cent to 185 3/4 p after UBS upgraded to " buy " .
unused1 President Bob Diamond dismissed speculation that strong first-quarter results from Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo were a " one-off " as the global credit crunch spreads to the wider economy .
Goldman reported first-quarter earnings of $1.8bn on Monday , exceeding estimates and adding to a string of rivals from Citigroup in the US to Deutsche Bank in Europe making bullish statements about trading conditions .
JPMorgan Chase said yesterday its investment banking business returned to profitability in the period , also beating expectations .
unused1 Even so , some analysts remain sceptical about the sustainability of this year 's earnings , which are flattered by comparison with last year 's aggressive writedowns .
Engelhard 's better-than-expected first- quarter results might even help its case .
unused1 The leather and textile chemicals unit saw revenues of around EUR400m in 2007 and employed 1,300 people .
unused1 At the same time BASF announced a small internal reorganisation as it prepares to integrate Ciba , a Swiss chemicals maker , for which it made a takeover offer in September .
BASF continues acquisition drive with $3bn agreed offer for Ciba
BASF , the world 's biggest chemicals company , yesterday continued its acquisition drive with an agreed offer to buy Switzerland 's ailing Ciba for SFr3.4bn ( $3.04bn ) .
Ciba , which had sales of SFr6.52bn and 13,000 employees last year , is one of the most famous names in Swiss industry and a cornerstone of its home town Basel .
unused1 Problems came to a head last month when Ciba reported a second-quarter loss of SFr606m after a SFr595m impairment charge on its water and paper treatment division .
unused1 The deal would boost earnings per share from the second year .
BASF hopes to double profits to EUR23bn by 2020
BASF , the world 's biggest chemical company by sales , struck a confident tone in spite of the risks to the global economy as it unveiled a new strategy to double profits by 2020 on strong emerging markets demand , innovative products and a cost-savings programme .
unused1 The German company , whose stock has fallen by 11 per cent over the past year , said it was also considering reviving a share buy-back programme .
unused1 BASF now expects to achieve EUR115bn ( $153bn ) in sales by 2020 , compared with a previous forecast of EUR90bn and last year 's level of EUR63.9bn.
unused1 The chemical maker also wants to achieve earnings before interest , taxation , depreciation and amortisation of EUR23bn by 2020 , compared with EUR11.1bn last year , equating to a compound annual growth rate of 7.5 per cent .
The company also made several large acquisitions including Ciba , a speciality chemical maker and Cognis , a maker of cosmetics and personal care products .
BASF said it is targeting EUR500m in sales from products for electromobility batteries by 2020 .
unused1 Barry Perry , Engelhard chief executive , has rejected BASF 's offers , arguing that they are too low .
BASF topped expectations with second-quarter results , and raised its outlook for the full year .
unused1 It expects " significantly " higher sales and an increase in earnings before interest and tax before special items in 2005 .
unused1 The improved outlook follows a 14 per cent rise in sales to Euros 10.6bn ( Dollars 12.9bn ) during the second quarter , as earnings before interest , taxes and special items jumped one-third to Euros 1.7bn.
BASF seals EUR3bn takeover of Cognis
BASF yesterday sealed a EUR3.1bn ( $3.8bn ) deal to take over smaller rival Cognis , in one of the largest acquisitions the chemicals sector has seen this year .
unused1 The world 's largest chemicals group by revenues said it had reached an agreement with Cognis 's owners - US investment bank Goldman Sachs and British private equity group Permira - to buy the company for an equity purchasing price of EUR700m .
The move , which is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to be formally completed by November , marks a fast return to acquisitions for BASF after its almost EUR4bn takeover of Swiss rival Ciba in 2008 .
unused1 BASF plans to integrate the business into its performance products segment , which made revenues of EUR9.4bn in the past year .
BASF , advised byLazard , initially hesitated to pay more than EUR3bn as it was wary of being seen to be overpaying after its acquisition of Ciba drew criticism .
BASF was one of the region 's biggest winners , rising 7.4 per cent to EUR40.61 after surprising the market with better than expected third quarter results .
unused1 The world 's largest chemical maker said earnings before interest and taxes excluding one-time write-offs rose 9.5 per cent quarter over quarter to EUR1.25bn , beating consensus expectations of a 9 per cent decline .
unused1 Shares in the Dutch maker of chip manufacturing equipment initially received a boost after its earnings report revealed it had EUR777m worth of bookings in the third quarter , beating the EUR637m consensus forecast .
Pernod Ricard , the world 's second-largest spirits group , declined 3.5 per cent to EUR53.71 after Exane BNP Paribas downgraded it from " neutral " to " underperform " and British peer Diageo reported poor underlying sales for first quarter .
In the car sector , Volvo was up 4.5 per cent to SKr64 after Deutsche Bank raised the Swedish carmaker 's sell price target from SKr30 to SKr35 .
In the utilities sector , Iberdrola and RWE fell after Morgan Stanley adopted a cautious stance on the industry and downgraded the two companies from " overweight " to " equal-weight " .
unused1 Morgan Stanley also lowered Eon ' s price target from EUR30 to EUR28 .
Eon , which yesterday received approval to acquire Belgian peer Electrabel , fell 1.6 per cent to EUR26.94.
Last week , Engelhard scotched hopes of a negotiated deal with BASF , after three months of ding-dong talks , unveiling instead a defence strategy centred on a planned Dollars 1.2bn share buy-back at Dollars 45 a share .
unused1 Last week , Engelhard reported first-quarter net income of Dollars 69m , up19 per cent , on revenues of Dollars 1.5bn , up 43 per cent .
A Reuters poll of analysts yesterday forecast that BASF , which reports first-quarter results on Thursday , would see a 10 per cent increase in revenue .
BASF , the world 's largest chemicals company , has been hit by its first quarterly loss in seven years as the economic slump hit demand - a downward trend the German group said was showing no sign of abating .
unused1 Jurgen Hambrecht , chief executive , said chemical consumption had not picked up at the start of the year and that he expected 2009 sales to fall - for the first time since 2002 - and operating income to record " an even greater decline " .
The banking crisis caused economic turmoil in late 2008 , leading BASF to report a fourth-quarter sales decline of 2.7 per cent to EUR14.3bn ( $18.3bn ) and a net loss of EUR313m , from net profit of EUR793m the year before .
unused1 For the full year 2008 , sales rose 7.5 per cent to EUR62.3bn , a result of higher oil prices , while earnings before interest and taxes slipped 11.7 per cent to EUR6.5bn and net profit tumbled 28.4 per cent to EUR2.9bn.
unused1 The German group 's third-quarter results show just how powerful a combination this can be .
unused1 Volumes jumped 14 per cent , with growth across all units and regions .
unused1 It is no wonder quarterly operating profits more than doubled to Euros 1bn on a one-fifth gain in revenues , beating all forecasts .
unused1 Meanwhile , it expects to exceed its cost of capital ( which it puts at a very high 10 per cent ) this year , which should prompt a dividend increase and even more share buybacks .
unused1 But , in spite of surging profits , chairman Jurgen Hambrecht seems determined to avoid any hint of drunken euphoria .
unused1 In March , Mr Hambrecht conservatively forecast flat 2005 operating income .
unused1 Yesterday 's first-quarter numbers , showing operating profits up 40 per cent and product prices up 13 per cent , give the lie to that conservatism .
unused1 So far , free cash flow has been used to finance share buybacks and dividend increases .
unused1 BASF said revenues and earnings would rise in 2013 due to recovery in demand and efficiency measures .
unused1 Full-year sales rose 7 per cent to EUR78.7bn but net income declined 21 per cent to EUR4.9bn as the higher proportion of earnings from oil and gas boosted its tax bill .
unused1 A dividend of EUR2.60 , up 10 cents , was proposed .
unused1 BASF , the world 's largest chemicals company , said yesterday the global manufacturing slump dragged its first-quarter sales down by a quarter and wiped two-thirds off net profit , forcing it to broaden cost and job cuts .
unused1 There was " currently no sign of a reversal of this trend " , he said , signalling that the second quarter could be even tougher .
unused1 Despite the acquisition of speciality chemicals group Ciba and oil company Revus , Mr Hambrecht said sales would fall below the EUR62.3bn ( $82.3bn ) seen in 2008 .
unused1 Operating income would come in " sharply " below last year 's EUR6.9bn.
unused1 The German company said " drastic " sales declines in its plastics and chemicals units pushed quarterly revenues 23 per cent lower to EUR12.2bn.
unused1 Net profit slipped 68 per cent to EUR375m as prices for its products eroded .
unused1 With sales volumes of some BASF products falling by as much as 50 per cent , Mr Hambrecht said the process of shrinking capacity to demand had proved " exceedingly difficult and painful " for executives and workers .
unused1 BASF said less demand for chemicals and plastics saw first-quarter sales in Asia , the manufacturing hub for many industries , fall 34 per cent .
unused1 North American revenues fell 26 per cent , those in Europe 21 per cent , it said .
unused1 Its unit making chemicals for agriculture benefited from higher sales .
BASF , the world 's largest chemicals company , said yesterday that the global slump in manufacturing had dragged its first-quarter sales down by a quarter and wiped two-thirds off net profit , forcing it to broaden cost and job cuts .
unused1 There was " currently no sign of a reversal of this trend " , he said , signalling that the second quarter could be even tougher for the group .
unused1 In spite of the acquisition of speciality chemicals group Ciba and oil company Revus , Mr Hambrecht said sales would fall below the EUR62.3bn ( $82.3bn ) seen in 2008 .
unused1 Operating income would come in " sharply " below last year 's EUR6.9bn.
unused1 The German company said " drastic " sales declines in its plastics and chemicals units pushed quarterly revenues 23 per cent lower to EUR12.2bn.
unused1 Net profit slipped 68 per cent to EUR375m as prices for its products eroded .
unused1 With sales volumes of some BASF products falling by as much as 50 per cent , Mr Hambrecht said the process of shrinking capacity to match demand had proved " exceedingly difficult and painful " for both executives and workers at the group .
unused1 BASF said that less demand for chemicals and plastics saw first-quarter sales in Asia , the manufacturing hub for many industries , fall 34 per cent .
unused1 North American revenues fell 26 per cent and those in Europe 21 per cent , it said .
unused1 Its agricultural chemicals unit benefited from higher sales .
German chemicals group BASF cut its profit outlook for the second time in as many months and said it would roll back production , citing a " massive " decline in demand in key industries .
S&P Equity research cut its recommendation on the stock from " buy " to " hold " , saying the magnitude of the capacity reduction , at 80 plants and involving 20 per cent of BASF 's global workforce , came as a surprise .
ING , the Dutch financial services group , fell 11.9 per cent to EUR6.28 after Goldman Sachs cut its price target from EUR14 to EUR9 and kept its rating at " neutral " .
BHP , which had very low gearing , plans to finance the Dollars 30bn buy-back with debt , which it said would make more efficient use of its balance sheet .
unused1 The man who runs BHP Billiton lives up to his moniker : he has just unveiled the biggest half-year profit ever for an Australian company - BHP is listed in London and Sydney - and the mining sector 's largest share buy-back programme .
unused1 Virtually all of the 37 per cent year-on-year increase in BHP 's earnings before interest and tax for the six months to December came from price increases .
unused1 BHP Billiton 's enchantment with potash , an obscure but vital commodity , has yielded the biggest takeover bid in the mining sector since BHP abandoned its hostile bid for Rio Tinto in 2008 .
That values the equity of Potash Corp , whose board immediately rejected the offer , at $39bn .
unused1 In January BHP agreed to buy Athabasca Potash for C$341m .
PotashCorp 's immediate rejection sets the stage for a potentially lengthy battle .
PotashCorp , which has net debt of about $3.4bn , saw pre-tax profits in the first half of the year rise from $452m to $1.28bn.
unused1 Australia 's foreign investment regulations will limit BHP Billiton 's takeover options in pursuing Rio Tinto even though BHP is based in the country , Peter Costello , the Australian treasurer , said yesterday .
unused1 BHP 's proposal to ex-change three of its shares for every one of Rio 's , valuing Rio at Pounds 68.8bn ( Dollars 143bn ) , has been rejected by Rio 's board .
BHP on Monday pledged to buy back Dollars 30bn worth of shares in the enlarged unit in an attempt to win support from investors .
Those facilities would be needed to finance the share buyback but BHP also believes that Rio Tinto 's Dollars 40bn financing deal to buy Alcan included a change- of-control clause and may need refinancing .
unused1 This would cut annual earnings for Rio and BHP by as much as 30 per cent and 19 per cent , respectively , Merrill Lynch forecast .
That was in spite of HSBC analysts arguing that BHP should revive its $66bn bid for Rio , which it abandoned at the height of the financial crisis in 2008 .
Liberty International fell 3.5 per cent to 488 1/4 p after Societe Generale added the stock to its " sell " list .
J Sainsbury fell 3.1 per cent to 340 1/2 p after Oriel Securities downgraded to " reduce " , telling clients that it was " baffled " by the stock 's 10 per cent gain since early February given the poor outlook for growth .
Reckitt Benckiser fell 4.3 per cent to pound(s)34.97 after its first-quarter results showed a surprisingly weak performance in Europe , which dragged sales growth below consensus forecasts .
JPMorgan Cazenove turned positive on Shell , saying first-quarter results could surprise and downgrades to the 2010 consensus looked to have run their course .
unused1 Regus , the serviced office provider , climbed 1.3 per cent to 120p after Citigroup started coverage with a " buy " rating and 145p target price .
Disappointing sales figures from Premier Foods sent its stock down 11.8 per cent to 26 1/2 p - just half a penny above the price of its its equity issue a year ago .
BHP and Rio offer iron-clad earnings
Investors in Anglo-Australian BHP and Rio can count on earnings uplifts from the strong resurgence in industrial metal prices that gained pace throughout the six months to December .
unused1 This has led investors to focus on the possibility of a large dividend , a share buy-back programme , rising capital expenditure , a large acquisition - or a combination of these .
unused1 Figures from its Alcan aluminium division , which recorded a net loss in the first half and is being restructured , will be closely scrutinised .
After a rights issue and asset sales in the second half , Rio is expected to halve net debt to about $19bn .
With cash flow also rising Rio could then make good on its interim pledge , expecting " to make a 2009 final dividend payment subject to satisfactory trading results " .
Think triple-B News Corp , trying to mop up minorities in BSkyB , or double-B International Power , merging with GDF Suez .
unused1 These exceptionals shrank BHP 's June full-year net profit more than a third from 2011 to $15.4bn - the same level as five years ago in nominal terms , despite revenue up a fifth since 2008 to a record $72bn .
BHP Billiton yesterday unveiled a58 per cent rise in full-year operating profit and a 25 per cent increase in operating cash flow before capital expenditure to Dollars 12bn .
BHP increased its final dividend by28 per cent .
BHP also unveiled a Dollars 3bn share buy-back and could afford more .
unused1 The group suspended its buyback in late 2007 , when it still had $4.2bn remaining to return to shareholders , to pursue its failed bid for Rio Tinto .
Sector peer Anglo American gained 3.2 per cent to pound(s)28.09 on the back of " buy " advice from Merrill Lynch .
unused1 The broker also raised its Anglo target price to pound(s)37.50 to reflect a rebound in platinum prices .
BAE Systems slipped 0.9 per cent to 364 3/4 p after Investec started coverage with a " hold " rating based on concerns about public spending .
BHP Billiton buys Athabasca Potash
BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest miner , was the latest company to make a move in the market for potash and other agricultural fertiliser ingredients , as it agreed to buy a Canadian potash developer for C$341m ( $320m ) .
Yesterday 's deal follows Vale 's $3.8bn acquisition on Tuesday of Bunge 's Brazilian assets which centre on phosphate and fertilisers .
BHP 's planned acquisition of Saskatchewan-based Athabasca Potash was not the big purchase analysts had long expected it to make in the potash sector .
Potash Corp or Mosaic , two heavyweights , were more often mentioned as targets for BHP , which has a sizeable cash pile and has signalled its interest in the sector since its acquisition of Anglo Potash in 2008 .
Having had a $39bn bid for Canada 's PotashCorp blocked in 2010 , BHP remains committed to building a world-scale potash business , Merrill said .
Royal Bank of Scotland faded 1.6 per cent to 317.4p with SocGen adding the stock to its " sell " list .
Drax rose 2.9 per cent to 672.5p after Goldman Sachs upgraded to " buy " with a 900p target price .
The transformation meant Drax could deliver 40 per cent earnings a share growth annually over the next five years , which more than justified the valuation of 29 times current-year earnings , it said .
Thomas Cook climbed 5.5 per cent to 169.9p on an upgrade to " buy " from Citigroup .
News of a share buy-back helped Debenhams rise 7.7 per cent to 67 1/2 p.
Pace dived 13 per cent to 80p after its third profit warning of the year .
unused1 Having had a $39bn bid for Canada 's PotashCorp blocked in 2010 , BHP remains committed to building a world-scale potash business , Merrill said .
Royal Bank of Scotland faded 1.6 per cent to 317.4p with SocGen adding the stock to its " sell " list .
Drax rose 2.9 per cent to 672.5p after Goldman Sachs upgraded to " buy " with a 900p target price .
The transformation meant Drax could deliver 40 per cent earnings a share growth annually over the next five years , which more than justified the valuation of 29 times current-year earnings , it said .
Thomas Cook climbed 5.5 per cent to 169.9p on an upgrade to " buy " from Citigroup .
unused1 Underlying operating profit rose by 95 per cent year-on-year , some 10 per cent ahead of expectations .
unused1 Higher prices drove this , while rising costs offset small volume gains .
Like Rio Tinto , BHP signalled its optimism by raising its dividend .
BHP boosts buy-back plan to $10bn
BHP Billiton has expanded its share buy-back scheme to $10bn after reporting record first-half profits on the back of boom prices for iron ore , coal and copper .
Weeks later it was forced to drop its $39bn hostile bid for Canada 's PotashCorp after failing to win local government backing .
BHP 's decision to expand its buy-back programme from $4.8bn to $10bn comes soon after Rio said it would buy back $5bn of its shares after its full-year pre-tax profits surged by 162 per cent to $20.6bn.
Xstrata this month more than tripled its dividend as its full-year pre-tax profits rose from $1.53bn to $6.61bn.
unused1 Pre-tax profits rose from $8.88bn last time to $14.1bn in the half year to December .
unused1 Revenues increased from $22.2bn to $32.4bn.
unused1 Underlying earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation hit a record , up 60 per cent to $17.3bn.
In the wider market , leading shares ended lower as the first quarter reporting season got off to a poor start with profits warnings from TomTom and US chipmaker AMD .
Among the food retailers , Tesco eased 2.1 per cent to 401p after Piper Jaffray analyst Mike Dennis warned earnings forecasts could be cut by 5 per cent after the UK 's biggest food retailer delivered full-year results on April 15 .
Santander held abortive takeover talks with A&L at the end of last year .
Meanwhile , HBOS slipped 1.9 per cent to 549 1/2p in the wake of the weak housing survey while Royal Bank of Scotland eased 0.5 per cent to 374 1/4p after Cazenove reiterated its " underweight " recommendation .
Among the mid-caps , Ashtead , the industrial plant hire company , lost 4.1 per cent to 59 1/4p after Investec Securities slashed its earnings forecasts citing an in-depth analysis of the US non-residential construction market .
unused1 It also said Ashtead traded at a large discount to its US peers and there was still Pounds 20m of additional profit potential to come out of its Nationsrent acquisition .
Retailers Halfords , off 1.8 per cent at 293 1/4p and DSG International , down 2.7 per cent at 63 1/4p , were marked lower in the wake of the profits warning from TomTom , the Dutch navigation device maker .
Last week , Garmin , a rival sat-nav company , also warned of slowing sales .
unused1 The mining group has raised the target for its buy-back scheme from $4.8bn to $10bn ( pound(s)6.2bn ) .
Growing from a low base , motor insurer Admiral utilised special dividends as an alternative means of returning spare cash to shareholders .
unused1 BHP has not cut its own dividend , which it describes as " an annuity " , since the Great Depression .
unused1 Both sides have escalated their war of words in the weeks since Rio rejected BHP 's offer of 3.4 of its shares for each one of Rio 's , in a takeover worth Dollars 147bn .
BHP Billiton has insisted its board voted unanimously to abandon the pursuit of rival Rio Tinto in spite of signs that its chief executive and chairman encountered dissent from non-executive directors , led by David Morgan , the former chief of Westpac Banking Corp.
BHP admitted when it dropped its bid for Rio on Tuesday that it would have been near impossible to get a good price for these assets in the current tough markets .
Attention is now shifting to Alcoa , which made a failed Dollars 27.5bn hostile bid for Alcan in May and is expected to become a take- over target itself .
unused1 BHP Billiton has formally ended its three-month pursuit of Saskatchewan 's PotashCorp after failing to secure the Canadian government 's approval for its hostile $39bn bid .
unused1 Tony Clement , Canada 's industry minister , blocked the acquisition on November 3 , saying he was not satisfied that it was likely to be of " net benefit " to Canada , as required by Ottawa 's foreign investment law .
The withdrawal marks another costly deal failure for BHP , which in 2008 walked away from its hostile attempt to buy rival miner Rio Tinto .
While BHP said it would restart its share buy-back programme - it has $4.2bn of its $13bn programme left - people familiar with the miner 's thinking said its acquisition strategy remained unchanged and that it would continue to look for opportunities to diversify , both by commodity and geography .
unused1 BHP Billiton , the mining group , has submitted its proposed hostile $180bn ( L91bn ) takeover of rival Rio Tinto to the European Commission , amid calls from the steel industry for the deal to be blocked on competition grounds .
unused1 Both sides have escalated their war of words in the weeks since Rio rejected BHP 's offer of 3.4 of its shares for each one of Rio 's , in a takeover worth Dollars 147bn ( Pounds 74bn ) that would create a global mining powerhouse .
unused1 Credit Suisse stuck with " outperform " advice and a pound(s)34.40 target , arguing that the current price failed to capture any volume growth beyond next year .
unused1 Testing group Intertek was up 6.2 per cent to pound(s)16.74 , after delivering better-than-expected interim earnings and raising full-year sales guidance .
British Airways jumped 5.2 per cent to 231p as brokers including Citigroup and RBS raised target prices in response to the airline 's results last week .
Yell missed out , holding steady at 24p after UBS downgraded from " buy " to hold " .
unused1 Among the fallers , outsourcing group Xchanging dived 12.5 per cent to 175p on a warning that sales would miss expectations .
Ahead of results due tomorrow , an Investec downgrade to " hold " led Premier Foods lower by 2.1 per cent to 18 1/2 p.
BHP Billiton , the Anglo-Australian miner trying to buy rival Rio Tinto for about Dollars 150bn ( Pounds 76bn ) , saw third-quarter iron ore output rise 22 per cent , driven by strong Chinese demand for the commodity used to make steel .
unused1 The increase in iron ore output to 28m tonnes in the March quarter from the same time last year outstripped the near 16 per cent quarterly rise to 39m tonnes reported by Rio Tinto recently .
unused1 Rio also reported a mixed set of quarterly production figures , which showed its iron ore production in Western Australia had been hit by cyclones and power cuts .
unused1 Its total petroleum product output rose 10 per cent to 93.3m barrels of oil equivalent in the nine-month period , while third-quarter production rose 19 per cent to 32.7m boe .
Investors expecting a special dividend or a new round of share buy-backs were disappointed and , in spite of BHP unveiling record full-year profit , its stock dropped 4 per cent to 804p .
unused1 Turnover at BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest mining company , rose 28 per cent to Dollars 31.8bn ( Pounds 17.7bn ) in the year to June 30 , thanks to higher volumes in many products and rising commodity prices .
unused1 Pre-tax profit for the year was Dollars 8.7bn , up 92 per cent , in line with expectations .
BHP purchased Dollars 1.8bn of its Australia-listed shares in a discounted off-market buy-back last November .
BHP also re-based its dividend at its half-year results in February , said Mr Lynch .
unused1 The group yesterday declared a final dividend of 14.5 cents , making a total of 28 cents , up 7.7 per cent , payable from earnings per share of 104.5 cents ( 54.3 cents ) .
Profit at BHP has been driven by strong demand for iron ore , coal and copper from China , where rapid industrialisation is taking place .
unused1 BHP 's carbon steel materials division , which includes its iron ore operations , was the company 's star with profit doubled to Dollars 2.8bn.
unused1 The results include two months of the new iron ore contract price , which is 71.5 per cent higher than the previous contract , so the division is expected to yield even better profit in the coming year .
Rio yesterday repeated its rejection of BHP 's offer of three of its shares for every one Rio share , and said its shareholders supported its rejection .
unused1 Asos , the online retailer , rose 4.6 per cent to pound(s)11.39 after Altium Securities started coverage with a " buy " recommendation and pound(s)12.26 price target based on international expansion prospects .
Meanwhile , JJB Sports was 10.9 per cent lower at 9 3/4 p after reporting a sharp slowdown in same-store sales in September due to a lack of promotions .
Healthcare Locums dropped 5.2 per cent to 113 3/4 p after Monday 's profit warning , and in spite of founder Kate Bleasdale spending pound(s)59,500 on shares .
Rio yesterday repeated its rejection of BHP 's offer of three of its shares for every one Rio share , and said its shareholders supported its rejection .
unused1 In the quarter from April to June , BHP 's iron ore production fell 10 per cent to 27m tonnes compared with the same quarter last year .
This compares with rival Rio Tinto 's 8 per cent second-quarter rise to 45.1m tonnes .
unused1 The drop was in line with analyst expectations .
unused1 Production of 307,000 tonnes marked a 21 per cent drop year-on-year , but a 9 per cent gain on the previous quarter , and the annual output of 1.2m tonnes was a record .
unused1 Reuters ' consensus forecasts see revenue dropping from $57.8bn to $52.3bn , and pre-tax profits falling from $24.2bn to $12.3bn.
BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest mining company by market capitalisation , has joined rival Rio Tinto in boosting quarterly production of iron ore to record levels , lifting output of the mineral used in steelmaking by almost a quarter .
unused1 In its half-year results to December 31 , the cash-rich miner continued to set itself apart from the hard-hit mining sector with profits higher than consensus forecasts .
unused1 It paid a dividend of 42 cents per share , one cent higher than the interim period last year .
unused1 Earnings per share more than doubled from 47 cents to 110.3 cents .
BHP 's net debt stood at $7.9bn at the end of 2009 and its gearing ratio was 15 per cent .
By contrast Xstrata , a smaller mining group , on Monday revealed net debt of $12.3bn and gearing of 26 per cent , about the gearing that analysts expect for Rio Tinto when it reports today .
unused1 Pre-tax profits rose from $6.9bn last time to $8.9bn in the half year to December .
unused1 Revenues fell to $22.2bn from $25.4bn.
unused1 In November , BHP approached Rio with a take-over proposal offering three BHP shares for each Rio share , worth about Pounds 65bn , which was rejected .
unused1 Iron ore production rose 9 per in the second quarter and was up 8 per cent in the latest half .
unused1 Petroleum rose 10 per cent in the quarter and by 5 per cent in the half .
unused1 Alumina was flat on the quarter , but rose 4 per cent during the half , while aluminium was flat in both the quarter and half .
BHP Billiton is on course to report its sixth consecutive year of profits growth after the Anglo-Australian mining group 's annual production figures showed bumper results from its petroleum , iron ore , man-ga-nese and copper operations .
BHP last year reported net profits up by more than a quarter to $13.4bn.
unused1 Ahead of yesterday 's bumper production report , analysts from ABN Amro in Australia had forecast record profits of $16.1bn for the year ended last month .
BHP shares eased 3 per cent to pound(s)18.33 amid renewed speculation it may bid for Mosaic , the second-largest potash producer .
They saw BHP as a likely bidder following last year 's failed $40bn approach for PotashCorp , Mosaic 's neighbour in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan .
It also argued that Canadian politicians who last year blocked BHP 's PotashCorp bid would not hold the same leverage over any deal for Minnesota-based Mosaic .
G4S led the blue-chip risers amid continued speculation that shareholders may block its pound(s)5.2bn deal to buy ISS , the office cleaning group .
Share buy-back news saw Debenhams rise 7.7 per cent to 67 1/2 p.
Pace dived 13 per cent to 80p after its third profit warning of the year .
A downgrade to " underperform " from Credit Suisse sent Mondi , the paper maker , 7.1 per cent lower at 448 1/2 p.
unused1 Numis Securities said the betting exchange 's plans to launch a fixed-odds sportsbook next year could boost group profit by 50 per cent .
Chemical makers and industrial companies were under pressure after profit warnings from 3M and Du Pont .
unused1 Newly floated Direct Line slipped 1.9 per cent to 189.3p after Nomura started coverage with a " reduce " rating and 174p target - a penny below its flotation price .
A profit warning carried Mulberry 23.8 per cent lower at pound(s)10.06 , with the handbag maker blaming tougher overseas markets and the cost of reining in its wholesale distributors .
Burberry has already announced sales and margins for its interim results due November 7 .
" Buy " advice from UBS helped N Brown , the catalogue retailer , rise 2 per cent to 324.4p.
Leading the gainers , Arm Holdings jumped 7.7 per cent to 640p after its quarterly earnings beat consensus expectations .
unused1 Analysts saw the deal boosting 2014 earnings by about 7 per cent .
unused1 BHP last month approached Rio Tinto with an all-share takeover proposal worth about Dollars 127bn which Rio Tinto this month rejected as too low .
BHP Billiton has expanded its share buy-back plan to $10bn after reporting record first-half profits on the back of boom prices for iron ore , coal and copper .
BHP 's decision to expand its buy-back programme from $4.8bn to $10bn comes soon after Rio Tinto said it would buy back $5bn of its shares after its full-year pre-tax profits surged by 162 per cent to $20.6bn.
Xstrata this month more than tripled its dividend as its full-year pre-tax profits rose from $1.53bn to $6.61bn.
BHP 's pre-tax profits rose from $8.88bn last time to $14.1bn in the half year to December .
BHP Billiton shareholders have called on chief executive Marius Kloppers not to rush into further blockbuster acquisition attempts after the miner spent $350m ( pound(s)217m ) on its aborted bid for Canada 's PotashCorp .
BHP , which on Monday formally scrapped its $39bn pursuit of the fertiliser producer after the Canadian government blocked the deal , said it would restart its $13bn share repurchase scheme .
BHP , according to its 2009 annual report , incurred costs of $357m relating to its failed hostile bid for Rio Tinto , making the PotashCorp approach the second time that an unsuccessful takeover has incurred transaction fees larger than the market capitalisations of many midsized mining companies .
BHP 's decision to drop the bid had been anticipated widely by the company 's investors and analysts , who for two weeks have been speculating about what target the company might chase next .
unused1 Rio yesterday repeated its rejection of BHP 's offer of three of its shares for every one Rio share , and said its shareholders supported its rejection .
BHP Billiton said it would not be diverted from a strategy of pursuing transformational acquisitions in spite of its failure in three consecutive deals , including this week 's aborted $39bn ( pound(s ) 24.6bn ) hostile takeover of Canada 's PotashCorp .
In 2008 , BHP abandoned its hostile bid for a then debt-laden Rio Tinto as the global financial crisis deepened .
unused1 The mining group has a solid balance sheet with net debt falling to $3.3bn at the year end after it generated net operating cash flow of $18bn in 2009-10 .
*PotashCorp said on Tuesday it was launching a $2bn stock buyback to support its share price .
unused1 UK chief 's exit follows shock profit warning ; Group battles to revive domestic performance
Richard Brasher , chief executive of Tesco 's UK operations , is to step down as Britain 's biggest retailer struggles to revive its domestic performance after its first profit warning in 20 years .
His departure comes in the wake of a profit warning in January after Tesco recorded its worst trading over the crucial Christmas period for decades .
The pair were said to have clashed over Tesco 's flagship pound(s)500m price cutting programme , which has failed to revive sales .
unused1 The management changes come amid early signs that a programme of aggressive voucher promotions has begun to stimulate sales growth .
unused1 The move comes as Mr Clarke puts the finishing touches to a recovery plan for the UK business that is expected to hit profits by pound(s)457m , wiping out any growth this year .
unused1 That partly reflects the latter 's higher debt - 46 per cent of its portfolio is financed by debt , against 36 per cent for Land Securities .
Add that to the valuation discount and a dividend yield that , at 5.1 per cent , will attract income investors , and British Land looks the more attractive of the two .
unused1 The UK 's second largest property company reported a pre-tax loss of Pounds 1.32bn in the last quarter after a 16.7 per cent drop in its net asset per share to Pounds 14.01.
unused1 Underlying pre-tax profit rose 12.5 per cent to Pounds 72m for the quarter , while underlying earnings per share rose 16.7 per cent .
unused1 The company 's debt is fixed at 5.28 per cent and over an average maturity of 12.6 years .
unused1 This strategy appeared vindicated yesterday as the group reported a 3.6 per cent uplift in the value of its retail warehouses and a 4.8 per cent rise in City offices during the first quarter .
unused1 Underlying pre-tax profit rose 33 per cent from the previous quarter to Pounds 77m ( Pounds 55m ) , helped by an Pounds 18m dividend from the company 's 17 per cent stake in Songbird , the Canary Wharf vehicle .
unused1 Underlying earnings per share were 11p ( 9p ) .
unused1 It is a sign of the hot market when the group 's portfolio is valued on a yield of 4.8 per cent while its cost of debt is 5.4 per cent .
SABMiller gained 5.1 per cent to pound(s)21.57 on forecast-beating interim earnings while British Airways took on 4.4 per cent to 273p following brighter-than- expected profit and guidance from Air France-KLM .
unused1 A UBS note flagging up Arm 's growth prospects in new markets such as servers , graphics and security provided a more fundamental reason for the gain , even though the broker retained a " neutral " rating .
Among the fallers , Intertek dropped 6.3 per cent to pound(s)18.28 after warning in a trading update that its full-year profit margin would be " slightly below " the 2009 level .
A Citigroup downgrade on valuation grounds sent Centrica sliding by 0.4 per cent to 331p .
Keller lost 8.2 per cent to 546p after the construction group warned that full-year earnings would be at the bottom end of expectations due to continued margin pressure and restructuring costs .
unused1 RBS and Canaccord Genuity repeated " buy " advice on the stock with both brokers arguing that fears about increased competition were already in the price .
Better-than-feared interim results lifted Qinetiq by 13.6 per cent to 112 1/2 p with strong demand for the group 's vehicle protection range offsetting falling service revenues .
Moneysupermarket.com , the price comparison site , lost 4 per cent to 78 1/2 p following a downgrade from Canaccord Genuity .
Next led the blue-chip risers , up 6.3 per cent to pound(s)24.83 , after raising profit targets .
Ocado added 10.5 per cent to 126 1/4 p after Waitrose , its main supplier , said interim sales were up 8.7 per cent .
unused1 Analysts forecast the electronics retailer to show UK and French sales deteriorating by about 20 per cent and 6 per cent respectively .
New World Resources , the Czech coal miner , lost 1.1 per cent to 538p after a downgrade to " sell " from UniCredit .
unused1 The company 's properties rose 2.3 per cent in value in the third quarter to December 31 , which boosted net asset value 4.4 per cent to 548p a share .
unused1 Rental growth remained positive , with a 0.5 per cent rise in estimated rental values in line with the previous quarter .
unused1 Lettings in the quarter have been agreed significantly ahead of estimated rental value in both its retail and offices portfolio , indicating future ERV growth .
unused1 Pre-tax profit fell from pound(s)611m to pound(s)263m in the period .
unused1 Underlying profit , which strips out the revaluation of its portfolio , rose from pound(s)58m to pound(s)64m .
unused1 " Investor focus will return to the attractive longer-term outlook for Wood Group , " said BarCap , which raised its price target on the stock to 920p .
unused1 The consensus underestimates Wood 's scale and potential to boost profit margins following its acquisition last year of sector peer PSN , the broker said .
Generator supplier Aggreko climbed 1.9 per cent to pound(s)19.80 after Citigroup raised earnings forecasts .
unused1 The stock last week dropped by a third after a profit warning .
Kofax gained 4.3 per cent to 464p as Espirito Santo repeated " buy " advice in a preview of its trading update due July 28 .
Pubs group Enterprise Inns advanced 2.7 per cent to 67 1/2 p after Peel Hunt upgraded to " buy " on valuation grounds .
In small caps , Psion , which makes handheld devices for delivery drivers and traffic wardens , lost 17.1 per cent to 74 1/4 p after it warned on profits , blaming supply chain problems .
unused1 The company said it now expects revenue growth in the year to be in the range of 5-8 per cent with gross margins similar to those of last year at about 38 per cent
unused1 Real Estate ; Growth in property values subsides ; Quarterly pre-tax profit drops 73 %
British Land has become the first leading property company to demonstrate the effects of a slowdown in the market with a sharply diminished rise in the value of its real estate portfolio in the past quarter .
unused1 The company 's property portfolio climbed 1.4 per cent to pound(s)8.7bn in the three months to June 30 , its first financial quarter , down considerably from the 16 per cent rise in the previous two quarters when the bounce in the market was at its height .
unused1 Profit before tax dropped to pound(s)171m , against pound(s)630m in the previous quarter .
unused1 The company will maintain its quarterly dividend at 6.5p.
unused1 Jones Lang LaSalle 's quarterly index showed that all-property total returns slowed to 3.6 per cent in the second quarter , against 6.2 per cent in the previous quarter , while capital value growth decreased to 2 per cent .
unused1 It has an untapped debt facility of more than pound(s)2.5bn that can be used to buy when the market recovers , although it needs equity to unlock the facilities .
unused1 For the three months to the end of December , pre-tax losses rose 22 per cent to pound(s)1.6bn - heavily dented by the pound(s)1.64bn writedown - on gross rental and related revenues that dropped 14 per cent to pound(s)137m .
unused1 The loss per share grew 21 per cent compared with the same period last year , to 312p .
unused1 Underlying pre-tax profit fell 13 per cent in the quarter to pound(s)63m .
unused1 Chris Grigg , chief executive , said yesterday that a fall in the number of retailers facing administration had helped boost net income from its retail portfolio by 2.7 per cent in the six months to September 30 , although a 2.3 per cent decline in office income reduced overall like-for-like rental income growth to 0.7 per cent over the period .
unused1 However , it said NAV had rebounded by 3.1 per cent in the second quarter amid encouraging lettings potential as " a positive shift in investor appetite combined with limited stock " benefited market valuations .
unused1 Gross rental income for the six months fell from pound(s)283m to pound(s)240m and a sharp contraction in the impact of negative revaluations , down from pound(s)1.2bn to pound(s)188m , saw pre-tax losses pegged back from pound(s)1.33bn to pound(s)113m .
British Land declared a second quarterly dividend of 6.5p , giving a first-half total of 13p ( 15.53p ) .
unused1 This was uncovered by losses per share of 13p but backed by pound(s)129m of underlying profits , which generated underlying earnings per share of 15p .
unused1 The property company took second spot on the FTSE 100 leaderboard after Alec Pelmore , Merrill Lynch 's property analyst , advised clients to buy , citing recent share price weakness and plans by Gordon Brown to introduce tax-efficient real estate investment trusts .
unused1 Lifting its recommendation to buy and setting a Pounds 10.70 target price , UBS said it expected a progress report on the M'Boundi oilfield , due in the next couple of weeks , to trigger upgrades .
On the downside , packaging group DS Smith shed 14.2 per cent to 144 1/2p after issuing another profits warning , while Northern Foods lost 4p to 88 3/4p after a 44-page sell note from Citigroup landed on the desks of City fund managers .
Setting a downside target price of 75p , Citigroup drew attention to the dire consequences that proposed front-of-pack labelling could have on sales of pizzas , pies and formed meats - which generate about 10 per cent of group revenues at Northern Foods .
EMI eased 1.19 per cent to 252p in spite of a buy recommendation from Deutsche Bank .
British Land , the UK 's second biggest property company , reported a strong bounce in the value of its estate during the third quarter to pound(s)8bn , as the real estate recovery began to feed into the balance sheets of the listed sector .
unused1 The company reported a net asset value of 438p for the third quarter , a jump of 18 per cent , which led to a profit of pound(s)611m , compared with a loss of pound(s)1.6bn last year .
unused1 Earnings per share were 60p , compared with a loss per share of 470p in the period last year .
British Land has pound(s)2.8bn of undrawn debt and pound(s)342m of cash .
unused1 There was like-for-like income growth of 1.4 per cent , however , and the company confirmed 272,000 sq ft of office space was under offer to new tenants .
unused1 The company will pay a third-quarter dividend of 6.5p.
unused1 Growth rates were set to slow , although a crash was very unlikely , Mr Hester said as he unveiled a surge in profit and asset values in the year to March 31 .
unused1 Its dividend yield is set to rise by a minimum of 45 per cent to more than 2 per cent .
unused1 Underlying profit was up 26 per cent to Pounds 228m ( Pounds 181m ) .
unused1 A total dividend of 17p ( 15.7p ) will be paid from underlying earnings per share of 36p ( 27p ) .
unused1 Of this , the final dividend is 11.8p ( 10.9p ) .
Marks and Spencer said fourth-quarter like-for-like sales fell 0.7 per cent , confounding hopes of a rise of up to 1.6 per cent in the revenue taken at stores open for at least a year .
Burberry Group was the biggest single faller after its rise in sales for the second half of the year met forecasts but could not extend a strong run in advance of the release of the results .
unused1 Miner unveils record full-year profits ; Kloppers stresses ' sense ' behind takeover
BHP Billiton pressed the case for its proposed takeover of rival Rio Tinto as it unveiled record full-year profits yesterday .
unused1 The world 's biggest miner reported a 22 per cent rise in pre-tax profits from $19.2bn to $23.5bn in the year to June 30 as it benefited from record production in several commodities as well as strong demand in China , cost cuts and a focus on high-margin growth projects .
unused1 This was the seventh consecutive year of record profits .
unused1 For each $2 of revenue you get $1 of profits . "
unused1 The final dividend will be $0.70 a share , up 48.9 per cent from the year before .
unused1 Earnings per share rose 20 per cent at $2.753 while revenue was up 25.3 per cent at $59.5bn.
unused1 Miner unveils record full-year profits ; Kloppers stresses ' sense ' behind takeover
BHP Billiton pressed the case for its proposed takeover of rival Rio Tinto as it unveiled record full-year profits yesterday .
unused1 The world 's biggest miner reported a 22 per cent rise in pre-tax profits from $19.2bn to $23.5bn in the year to June 30 as it benefited from record production in several key commodities as well as strong demand in China , cost cuts and a focus on high-margin growth projects .
unused1 This was the seventh consecutive year of record profits .
unused1 For each $2 of revenue you get $1 of profits . "
unused1 The final dividend will be $0.70 per share , up 48.9 per cent from the year before .
unused1 Earnings per share rose 20 per cent at $2.753 while revenue was up 25.3 per cent at $59.5bn.
unused1 The venture reported Dollars 4.6bn in sales last year from its 40 stores , commanding a 17.1 per cent market share .
unused1 The venture 's sales more than doubled to 1.16m cars last year and increased 53 per cent to 476,000 units in the first four months of this year , overtaking Kia Motors as Korea 's second largest carmaker after Hyundai .
IBM Korea is reporting about Dollars 1bn in annual sales even after disposing of its PC business , and Hewlett-Packard Korea 's annual turnover is roughly Dollars 1.4bn.
unused1 After August 's jumbo dividends this falls to Dollars 119bn - and 34th place .
Further , Vodafone is unpopular with some investors and trades on a low 2006 earnings multiple of 12 times .
unused1 However , Morgan Stanley downgraded its stance to " underweight " with a 360p target price .
The group 's US mobile phone joint venture with Verizon Communications - Verizon Wireless - is to pay a long-awaited dividend of $10bn next January , it was announced overnight .
Lloyds Banking Group dropped 3.7 per cent to 43 1/4 p after RBS cut the stock off its " buy " list .
unused1 Its interim earnings matched forecasts but operational issues meant copper production fell 8 per cent , which triggered downgrades .
Document-scanning specialist Kofax lost a further 7.9 per cent to 362p on the back of Thursday 's trading update , which indicated a sharp deterioration of organic sales growth in the second half .
Citigroup repeated " buy " advice on Spirent .
UBM rose 5.3 per cent to 541p after the trade magazine publisher raised guidance for its events business and posted solid earnings .
Man Group dropped 6 per cent to 156 1/4 p after a poor week for AHL , the fund estimated to provide about four-fifths of its profit .
Though Lamprell said its 2011 earnings would meet expectations thanks to outperformance elsewhere , analysts remained cautious .
A reassuring trading update helped Travis Perkins add 8 per cent to 865p with the builders ' merchant reporting no signs of sales growth weakening .
Amlin , the Lloyds insurer , jumped 8 per cent to 312 1/4 p on " buy " advice from Citigroup .
unused1 The group 's core London and Bermuda businesses " remain excellent " and a 2012 dividend yield of 8 per cent looked " relatively safe " , it said .
Premier Foods lost 20 per cent to 3 3/4 p , taking its fall since a profit warning on Friday to 62 per cent .
Boiler developer Ceres Power dropped 16.8 per cent to 25 1/4 p after warning of further product delays while Enova Systems , a maker of electric motors , fell 21.9 per cent to 12 1/2 p after a profit warning .
unused1 The re-rating has been even more striking given that it has coincided with a set of full-year results that confirmed a long- term trend of deteriorating profit margins and a flat outlook for earnings .
Like other mega-caps , Vodafone still looks out of reach for private equity with an enterprise value including net debt of Dollars 200bn .
Unilever yesterday issued a warning that input inflation will cost some 4 per cent of sales , or about EUR1.8bn ( pound(s)1.5bn ) .
unused1 Analysts agreed , saying the 26 per cent increase in operating profit to EUR6.3bn for 2010 showed the company was regaining its competitive edge .
unused1 Last year underlying volumes at the maker of Dove soap and Magnum ice- cream rose 5.8 per cent year-on-year , the highest growth in 30 years , which Mr Polman attributed to more innovation in more countries .
Unilever reported turn-over of EUR44.3bn , up 11 per cent , with the aid of favourable currency fluctuations .
unused1 Pre-tax profit rose 25 per cent to EUR6.1bn.
unused1 Net profit rose 26 per cent to EUR4.6bn , while diluted earnings per share were up 25 per cent to EUR1.46.
unused1 A fourth-quarter dividend of 17.75p ( 17.04p ) is proposed .
Pierre-Olivier Beckers , Delhaize 's chief executive , dismissed a marketing agency study that the clash had hurt first-quarter sales .
unused1 Exposure to the US dollar helped boost fourth-quarter net profit , which rose 30.5 per cent to EUR163.4m.
unused1 An annual dividend of EUR1.48 a share was proposed on earnings per share of EUR4.70.
unused1 News analysis ; Spreading its net widely has already bolstered profits , even in a recession , writes William MacNamara and Peter Smith
BHP Billiton 's $39bn ( pound(s)25bn ) takeover bid for Canada 's PotashCorp is backed by the mightiest finances in the resources sector , the mining company revealed yesterday as it reported annual profits margins of 38 per cent and operating cash flows that are five times higher than net debt .
unused1 But even as its cautious outlook tilted towards bearishness , in its financial results for the year to June 30 it reported that annual pre-tax profits had risen nearly 70 per cent to $19.6bn on the back of higher copper and iron ore prices .
unused1 Iron ore boosted BHP 's profits more than any other commodity in the year to June , contributing $6bn to earnings before interest and tax out of a group total of $19.7bn.
unused1 Revenues were stable , rising only marginally from $50.2bn to $52.8bn.
unused1 Measured by earnings before interest and tax and excluding one-off items , profits were also relatively stable , rising from $18.2bn to $19.7bn.
unused1 The company 's broad earnings base allowed it to pay down net debt , which fell $2.3bn to $3.3bn.
unused1 Analysts expect stronger earnings from BHP 's iron ore for the remainder of the calendar year .
unused1 Its depreciation against the Australian dollar , South African rand and other currencies in operating countries wiped $2.15bn from earnings before interest and tax .
BHP upped its final dividend to 45 cents , which takes it total pay-out to 87 cents .
unused1 Earnings per share were 228.6 cents , up from 105.6 the previous year .
unused1 Hargreaves lost 3.4 per cent to 431p and Ashmore fell 2.4 per cent to 355p after RBS moved to " hold " and " sell " respectively .
Pearson , which owns the Financial Times , lost 4.3 per cent to pound(s)11.83 after BarCap moved it to " underweight " on valuation grounds .
unused1 It repeated " buy " advice with a pound(s)34 target .
House broker JPMorgan Cazenove cut its 2012 earnings forecast by 15 per cent .
unused1 Panmure Gordon , repeating " sell " advice , said the online grocer was unlikely to make money before 2013 , so its valuation remained too high to attract predators .
Logica lost 5.1 per cent to 77 1/2 p , with Singer Capital Markets downgrading the IT services group to " sell " .
Among small caps , Bowleven dropped 7.2 per cent to 80 1/4 p after Investec cut the Africa-focused oil explorer off its " buy " list .
Earnings worries put pressure on Unilever as miners lift FTSE 100
Earnings worries put Unilever among London 's biggest fallers yesterday .
Weaker emerging markets meant Unilever 's sales growth was likely to undershoot market expectations , said Oriel Securities .
unused1 Analysts expect the group to deliver 5.5 per cent organic growth when it reports second-quarter results next week , down from 5.7 per cent from the same period last year .
unused1 Credit Suisse downgraded Unilever to " underperform " , pulling the stock 1.6 per cent lower at pound(s)27.56.
Thomas Cook rose 2.7 per cent to 146.5p after UBS added the stock to its " buy " list , in spite of its threefold rise already this year .
Smiths Group faded 1 per cent to pound(s)13.77 after the engineer warned of a pound(s)15m hit to earnings from continuing problems with legacy contracts at its detection division .
Capita faded 1.8 per cent to pound(s)10.36 , with RBC downgrading to " underperform " .
Imperial Tobacco lost 2.5 per cent to pound(s)21.97 as it began trading without a 35.2p dividend , and after Natixis cut it from its " buy " list .
Earnings worries weigh on Unilever as FTSE edges up
unused1 Analysts expect the group to deliver 5.5 per cent organic growth when it reports second-quarter results next week , down from 5.7 per cent for the same period last year .
unused1 Meanwhile , Unilever 's valuation had risen to a 10-year high , putting it at a wide premium to peers on earnings ratios , said Credit Suisse , which downgraded Unilever to " underperform " , pulling the stock 1.6 per cent lower at pound(s)27.56.
unused1 A retread of bid theories helped the shares , as did industry data showing M&S 's grocery sales spiking higher .
Thomas Cook rose 2.7 per cent to 146.5p after UBS added the stock to its " buy " list , in spite of its threefold rise already this year .
Smiths Group faded 1 per cent to pound(s)13.77 after the engineer warned of a pound(s)15m hit to earnings from problems with legacy contracts at its detection division .
Capita faded 1.8 per cent to pound(s)10.36 , with RBC downgrading to " underperform " .
Imperial Tobacco lost 2.5 per cent to pound(s)21.97 as it began trading without a 35.2p dividend , and after Natixis cut the stock from its " buy " list .
Kazakhstan miner Kazakhmys climbed 1 per cent to 962p ahead of full-year earnings figures on Thursday , with Credit Suisse analysts maintaining anoutperform rating , saying " any share price weakness should be used as a buying opportunity given the strong outlook for the coppermarket and Kazakhmys itself " .
Man Group rose 1.4 per cent to Pounds 23.84 after Deutsche Bank lifted its price target from Pounds 22.60 to Pounds 26.20 ahead of the hedge fund manager 's pre-close trading update on Friday .
unused1 It moved from " neutral " to " buy " with an unchanged price target of pound(s)22.70.
unused1 HSBC stuck with " overweight " advice .
FirstGroup lost 4.2 per cent to 359p after warning that pressures on US school board budgets were likely to hold back profit growth .
Engelhard agrees to Dollars 5bn BASF acquisition AUTO PARTS MAKER
Engelhard , the US manufacturer of catalysts for cars , trucks and factories , has agreed to a takeover by BASF of Germany worth about Dollars 5bn , marking the end of one of the most protracted transatlantic takeover battles .
unused1 That gathering has been postponed indefinitely following the agreed takeover worked out by bankers in recent days .
unused1 And in the fourth quarter , the unit outshone most rivals .
unused1 In the advisory businesses revenues where up 29 per cent sequentially compared with an average increase at European and US peers of 18 per cent .
In bond trading , the investment bank 's engine , Barclays ' revenues dropped 8 per cent compared with the third quarter , while its largest global rivals on average lost 26 per cent .
unused1 With fixed income revenues of pound(s)1.46bn in the fourth quarter , the bank has now overtaken Deutsche Bank , one of its main rivals .
Even in equities where Mr Jenkins is paring back the franchise , Barclays ' 9 per cent revenue fall was less severe than that of most rivals .
unused1 Falling food inflation takes a bite out of Tesco sales growth
Tesco 's underlying sales growth in the UK has dropped to its lowest levels in at least six years as falling food inflation hits the biggest grocer in the country .
unused1 The world 's third-biggest grocer yesterday reported underlying sales rose just 0.1 per cent , excluding fuel , in the first quarter .
unused1 David McCarthy , an analyst at Evolution Securities , added the first quarter was the weakest performance he could remember since he started covering the company about two decades ago .
unused1 Underlying growth including petrol rose 3.8 per cent in the 13 weeks to May 30 , while group sales rose 8.2 per cent in the same period .
GUS , which operates Argos stores , lost 1.4 per cent to 874p after UBS cut its rating to " neutral " from " buy " and lowered its price target to 970p from 1050p .
Countrywide Estates rose 7 per cent to 400p after analysts at Numis Securities upped its rating to " add " from " sell " .
Nomura had " reduce " ratings on British Land , down 2.3 per cent to 463p , and Liberty International , off 1.2 per cent to 482 1/2 p.
Having hit a nine-year high last week , Autonomy was down 1.3 per cent to pound(s)18.13 after UBS cut the software maker off its " buy " list on valuation grounds .
unused1 Merrill Lynch restarted coverage of Smiths with a " buy " rating and pound(s)13 target , citing cost-cutting potential at its medical and mechanical seals businesses .
Among the mid-caps , GKN took on 5.3 per cent to 131p after Evolution Securities repeated " buy " advice following a management meeting .
HMV led the retailers , up 2.9 per cent to 78p , as Nomura reiterated " buy " advice ahead of a trading update on Friday .
Repair and maintenance group Homeserve , which also reports on Friday , rose 2.8 per cent to pound(s)17.54 after RBS upgraded from " hold " to " buy " .
Inmarsat firmed 2.7 per cent to 654 1/2 p , helped by a " buy " note from Liberum , which valued the satellite operator from pound(s)7 to pound(s)11 a share based on worst-case and best-case scenarios .
Chip designer Arm Holdings gained 3.2 per cent to 372p , bouncing back from profit-taking in the wake of Tuesday 's in-line quarterly results .
unused1 Morgan Stanley , repeating an " overweight " rating , said the group 's contract wins beyond the handset market still offered " significant upside " to forecasts .
Schroders took on 4.6 per cent to pound(s)15.95 and Aberdeen Asset Management added 0.9 per cent to 177p on the back of " overweight " recommendations from Morgan Stanley .
Industrial stocks were under pressure following a profit warning from 3m .
" Based on our 2010 forecasts , we estimate a Pounds 500m incremental pre-tax profit opportunity for Barclays or Pounds 800m for the combined group ( which includes ABN ) , " Cazenove said
In particular , a profit warning from Countrywide , the biggest mortgage lender in the US , really hit sentiment .
unused1 Citigroup , which lifted its target price on Imperial to Pounds 25.50 yesterday , said selling the business could generate Pounds 1.9bn and would leave Imperial requiring a Pounds 3bn rights issue to finance the Altadis deal .
Yell Group rose 0.7 per cent to 472 1/2p on relief that first- quarter results had met expectations .
Sports Direct International , the sports wear re-tailer , provided the main talking point in the FTSE 250 as its shares slumped 22.6 per cent to 147p after maiden results disappointed and the company warned on profit for 2008 .
Britvic , the soft drinks company that makes Robinsons fruit squash , improved 3.8 per cent to 354p after Deutsche Bank upgraded it to " buy " .
unused1 " While downgrades are likely for 2007 ( because of wet weather ) , we do not necessarily think that is the case for 2008 and 2009 , where we expect the group to report strong double-digit earnings growth , " it said .
Overnight , Transocean , the world 's largest offshore drilling company , announ-ced an Dollars 18bn bid for smaller rival GlobalSantaFe .
Fresnillo said it was poised to overtake BHP Billiton and become the world 's largest silver producer by the end of next year after it announced bumper profits in its half-year results yesterday .
unused1 Pre-tax profits for the Mexico-based miner rose to $354.4m , up from $179.9m on the same period last year , on the back of high gold and silver prices and increased production .
unused1 That was underpinned by sales of $605.6m , buoyed by the average price of gold and silver , which has risen by more than a quarter because of investor fears of sovereign debt risk .
unused1 The company said it would pay a dividend of 9.2 cents per share .
New accounting rules helped British American Tobacco report a rise in first-quarter profit yesterday , despite a fall in sales , which briefly nudged the shares past the Pounds 10 mark .
unused1 Underlying earnings per share exceeded many forecasts , rising by 26 per cent compared with estimated rises of about 10 per cent .
unused1 The group , which makes Kent , Dunhill and Lucky Strike cigarettes , was helped by cost reductions , a lower tax rate and the share buy-back programme .
unused1 But Jan du Plessis , chairman , cautioned that comparisons would become more difficult as the year progressed and that the current earnings growth was not indicative of the rest of year .
unused1 Analysts predicted that growth would be closer to 10 to 12 per cent .
unused1 During the quarter , organic volume growth rose by 0.6 per cent , reversing the trend of volume decline from others in the sector .
unused1 But Paul Adams , chief executive , said he was expecting better growth for the year as whole . 
Most of BAT 's geographic regions reported higher profits , with the exception of America Pacific , where profits fell Pounds 35m to Pounds 88m as the Canadian market continued to feel the effects of higher duty that has prompted smokers to turn away from premium brands to value cigarettes .
unused1 In Japan , increased competition from Japan Tobacco was behind volume and profit falls .
unused1 The separation out of Reynolds American , which is now counted as an associate , also dented profits and volumes .
The results for the quarter were complicated by IFRS , which caused pre-tax profit to rise from Pounds 575m to Pounds 624m in the three months to March 31 , as post-tax profit from BAT 's associates were added back into the results .
Operating profit fell from Pounds 604m to Pounds 582m , and were hit by the sale of Etinera , the distribution group , and the new treatment of BAT 's 42 per cent stake in Reynolds American .
unused1 Turnover fell from Pounds 2.6bn to Pounds 2.1bn , and earnings per share were 22 per cent higher at 20.26p ( 16.65p ) .
However , BHP is unlikely to bow to shareholder pressure for a share buyback . 
BHP sets deadline for WMC bid NEWS DIGEST
unused1 BHP Billiton yesterday ratcheted up the pressure on WMC shareholders to accept its ADollars 9.2bn ( Dollars 7bn ) agreed offer for the Australian mining group , saying its bid would close on June 3 .
unused1 Tuesday 's first-quarter results show that statement might have been premature .
unused1 Underlying profits were $ 4.8bn , a 13 per cent decline on year-ago levels , despite strong oil prices , and came in below most analysts ' expectations . 
They also come days after BP 's biggest European rival , Royal Dutch Shell , unveiled rising production and profits that beat most analysts ' forecasts .
BP is targeting total sales of $ 38bn by the end of next year . 
BP also warns that output will fall in the second quarter , as some of its operations shut down for planned seasonal maintenance .
unused1 He says that first-quarter numbers suggest it is not yet on track to meet that goal .
unused1 Yesterday 's first-quarter results show that may have been premature .
unused1 Underlying profits were $ 4.8bn , a 13 per cent decline on year-ago levels , despite strong oil prices , and came in below most analysts ' expectations .
They also come days after BP 's biggest European rival , Royal Dutch Shell , unveiled rising production and profits that beat most analysts ' forecasts .
BP is targeting total sales of $ 38bn by the end of next year . 
BP also warns that output will fall in the second quarter , as some of its operations shut down for planned seasonal maintenance .
unused1 The company 's board has not met since December , when two independent directors quit , and there is little likelihood that BP will receive a dividend from TNK-BP until the board is back to its full strength .
unused1 And it says half of the increase will be paid out to shareholders and used to pay down net debt , which at the end of March was $ 31.2bn , compared with $ 27.5bn the previous year .
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline rose yesterday after it agreed to buy Corixa , a US biotechnology company , for Dollars 300m ( Pounds 159m ) in cash , which gives the UK-based pharmaceuticals group access to a key ingredient used in its vaccines .
GSK shares rallied last week after the company 's first-quarter results . 
GSK turns hostile with $ 2.6bn bid for HGS
unused1 GlaxoSmithKline has formally turned its $ 2.6bn bid for Human Genome Sciences hostile , after its un-solicited approach to the US drug developer was dismissed last month .
unused1 The move reflects an intensification of acquisition activity in the healthcare sector of late , and follows a hostile $ 6.8bn bid by Roche for Illumina , a US diagnostics company , which it withdrew last month .
unused1 The announcement came as the company formally rejected as " inadequate " GSK 's $ 13 a share cash offer , which was launched last week to shareholders after it was rejected by the board . 
HGSI estimated Benlysta 's US sales potential at $ 7bn a year for an initial 200,000 lupus patients , with scope to expand to other similar diseases , although GSK 's response appeared to question the market size for Benlysta . 
unused1 An investor has sued Human Genome Sciences in an effort to remove a " poison pill " unveiled by the US biotech company to help fend off GlaxoSmithKline's $ 2.6bn hostile bid .
unused1 It claimed substantial potential sales growth for Benlysta , its lupus treatment .
GlaxoSmithKline has begun a process to try to replace the entire board of Human Genome Sciences , adding pressure to the unsolicited $ 2.6bn bid it made for the US biotech company in April , according to people familiar with situation .
HSBC delivers 25 % rise in profits
The euro could survive an exit by Greece , HSBC predicted yesterday , as it announced that first-quarter underlying profit had risen 25 per cent year on year to $ 6.78bn .
HSBC said the rise in underlying profit reflected increased revenues in its investment banking and commercial banking arms .
unused1 The group 's statutory pre-tax profit , which included a $ 2.64bn accounting loss related to fluctuations in the value of its issued debt , was $ 4.32bn for the first three months of the year , down from $ 4.91bn in the first quarter of 2011 .
unused1 However , recent signs of a blip in the growth trend in Brazil pushed up loan losses there by about $ 250m . 
HSBC has begun its expansion in consumer finance in emerging markets including China , India , Mexico and Turkey , by targeting lower-income customers with the techniques of Household International , the US company it acquired for USDollars 13bn in 2003 .
Household 's model - borrowing funds at low interest rates and lending them out at much higher ones to " sub-prime " customers - has become a key driver of profit growth at HSBC .
unused1 In 2004 , the personal finance business , which includes credit cards , accounted for about 30 per cent of group profit .
Mr Green also indicated HSBC was not looking at acquisitions in South Africa , a market in the spotlight after Barclays bought a majority stake in Absa for R33bn ( Dollars 5.04bn ) - the biggest foreign investment in the country since the end of apartheid .
HSBC added to concerns about consumer debt yesterday , saying it had seen a " marked " increase in bad and doubtful debts in the first quarter .
unused1 Mr Toeman said US bankruptcies were picking up ahead of a change in legislation and while the bank 's US business had a positive first quarter , that could be " as good as it gets " .
He also defended Shell 's position of offering no increase in quarterly dividend payments of 42 cents over three years since 2009 .
Shell nudged the payment up by a 1 cent to 43 cents in April .
Jury still out on Unilever 's first-quarter sales recovery
Unilever bucked its recent depressing trend with a surprise increase in underlying sales growth during the first quarter .
Analysts and investors had been wary of poor first-quarter results from Unilever , which has struggled with declining sales in recent years .
But Unilever said its competitive position had improved over the past six months , with sales growing 2 per cent in the first quarter compared to a year earlier , excluding the impact of extra trading days .
unused1 Most of the increase was down to healthy sales of Unilever products in emerging markets . 
unused1 In Asia and Africa , the company 's underlying sales rose by some 7 per cent .
unused1 Europe remained weak even as the company cut prices to try and improve its competitive position , and sales dropped 2 per cent . 
unused1 Sales rose 4 per cent in the Americas .
unused1 Pre-tax profit was up 8.5 per cent to Euros 1.28bn ( Pounds 867m ) .
unused1 Analysts said it is too early to tell whether the first-quarter rise in underlying sales growth would be sustained .
unused1 Relatively low investment in A&P may be boosting Unilever 's profit margins , one analyst said . 
Unilever 's overall turnover fell 6 per cent in 2004 compared with the year before , while net profit fell 32 per cent and underlying sales rose just 0.4 per cent .
In May , Vodafone announced a 1.3 per cent rise in revenues to  46.4bn for the 12 months to March 31 , while pre-tax profit was flat at  9.5bn , with a  4bn impairment charge for poor performance in rapidly weakening European markets .
Between July 2008 , when Mr Colao became chief executive , and March 2012 , Vodafone delivered total shareholder return of 45.8 per cent , a  14.9bn appreciation in market capitalisation , with  19.2bn paid out in dividends and  6.7bn in share buybacks .
unused1 The drop in spending by cash-strapped consumers in southern Europe and tougher government regulation prompted the company to cut its medium-term revenue growth target by 1 percentage point to a range of 0-3 per cent .
The story was different in the US where Verizon Wireless , the mobile operator 45 per cent owned by Vodafone , reported service revenues up 7.3 per cent year on year , contributing  4.9bn of profit to the British group .
In the 12 months to March 31 , Vodafone reported flat pre-tax profit of  9.5bn from revenues up from  45.8bn to  46.4bn .
unused1 Diluted earnings per share fell from 15.11p to 13.65p , and a final dividend of 6.47p was proposed , up from 6.05p , bringing the total payout to shareholders for the year - including a 4p special dividend - to 13.52p , a rise of 51.9 per cent from the previous year .
Mr Colao refused to comment on Vodafone 's  1.04bn bid for Cable & Wireless Worldwide , which has been called into doubt due to shareholder resistance to the deal .
Mr Colao also took a swipe at the Indian authorities for pursuing Vodafone for $ 2.6bn in capital gains tax following its acquisition of a controlling stake in Hutchison Essar , an Indian mobile business , in 2007 .
Vodafone 's board will today ratify an extension of the mobile operator 's aggressive share buy-back programme after repurchasing Pounds 564.7m of stock in the past eight weeks .
unused1 The company , which bought back Pounds 4bn of shares last year , is expected to announce a continuation of the programme together with its full-year results tomorrow .
unused1 Industry analysts are forecasting a similar size repurchase for the current financial year , but expectations of a richer programme - perhaps reaching Pounds 4.5bn - have gathered pace following continued buy-backs in the current financial year .
Today 's board meeting will also reaffirm plans for a more generous dividend pay-out as Vodafone prepares to announce underlying earnings up 2.3 per cent at Pounds 12.9bn on sales of Pounds 34bn , compared with Pounds 33.6bn last time .
unused1 Analysts at Lehman Brothers are expecting the company to report about 1.5m 3G subscribers at the end of March . 
This could raise doubts about Vodafone 's target of reaching 10m subscribers by the end of the current financial year .
unused1 The group has warned it could take up to 15 months to revive the business , and SG Equity Research warned of little improvement in subscriber trends during April .
In spite of these problems , there , Vodafone 's pre-tax profits are expected to rise modestly from Pounds 10bn to Pounds 10.2bn with the total number of subscribers likely to rise about 10 per cent this year from the 151.8m total at the end of last year .
unused1 Given the group 's estimated free cash flow of almost Pounds 7bn , Arun Sarin , chief executive , has promised increased dividends and buy backs as a tool to reward shareholders . 
unused1 The FTSE 100 company yesterday cut its medium-term revenue growth target for the current financial year by 1 percentage point to between 0 per cent and 3 per cent . 
In the 12 months to March 31 , Vodafone reported flat pre-tax profit of  9.5bn on a 1.2 per cent rise in revenues to  46.4bn .
However , investors pushed up Vodafone shares 4.3 per cent to 172p thanks to a proposed 52 per cent jump in the group 's full-year dividend to 13.52p , and a strong performance in the US . 
Verizon Wireless , the US mobile operator 45 per cent owned by Vodafone , reported service revenues up 7.3 per cent year on year and contributed  4.9bn to the group 's bottom line .
Mr Colao   took a swipe at the Indian government 's fresh efforts to prise $ 2.6bn in capital gains tax from Vodafone over its 2007 acquisition of a controlling stake in Hutchison Essar . 
Verizon Wireless , in which Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake , is widely expected to resume paying dividends in 2012 to break the stalemate between its parent companies .
unused1 Merrill Lynch , cutting Cairn to " neutral , " said that it was too early to write Greenland off but saw the shares rangebound before drilling starts again next year .
Arm Holdings was 5.9 per cent weaker at 366 1/4 p after mixed quarterly earnings , with the chip designer beating expectations on sales but also reporting higher than forecast operating costs .
It moved to " neutral " ratings on Old Mutual , down 2.5 per cent to 131p , Legal & General , 1.3 per cent weaker at 101 1/2 p , and Standard Life , off 0.3 per cent to 226 1/4 p.
WPP lost 1.7 per cent to 732p after UBS cut the stock from its " buy " list on valuation grounds .
unused1 Third-quarter results due on Friday will be strong but guidance on organic growth next year " could , at least initially , be well below the circa 4 per cent forecast by the consensus " , UBS said .
Jefferies moved to " hold " in a preview of the group 's results next week , which voiced concerns about rising input costs and limited pricing power .
Among the gainers , Carnival jumped 4.3 per cent to pound(s)27.68 after closest peer Royal Caribbean Cruises raised its earnings guidance for 2010 and 2011 .
Varco has been widely rumoured to be among the potential buyers of Wellstream , which earlier this month rejected a 750p bid approach from General Electric .
WS Atkins lost 2.2 per cent to 775p on an RBS downgrade from " buy " to " hold " .
BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest miner , surprised investors with plans to return Dollars 10bn ( Pounds 5.1bn ) in share buy-backs and search for a new chief executive after the incumbent Chip Goodyear said he plannedto leave at the end ofthe year .
unused1 That news overshadowed the half-year earnings results , which were slightly short of analysts forecasts .
BHP reported a 41 per cent jump in first-half net profit to Dollars 6.17bn ( Dollars 4.36bn ) on higher metal prices and said China would continue as the main driver of demand for raw materials .
unused1 Jason Fairclough , mining analyst at Merrill Lynch , said the first- half earnings were about3 per cent below estimates .
As with rival Rio Tinto , which last week reported a 25 per cent gain in half-year profit to Dollars 3.59bn , BHP 's base metals division and petroleum unit made a weighty contribution .
BHP , which has 29 projects worth Dollars 17.5bn in construction or at the feasibility stage , increased its first-half dividend 14 per cent to 20 cents .
Liberty Global , which has net debt of about $40bn and a market capitalisation of more than $30bn , would be a digestible deal for Vodafone post a Verizon stake sale and one which would significantly decrease its appeal as a takeover target , analysts said .
Given Orange UK is bigger than T-Mobile UK , France Telecom plans to place pound(s)1.25bn of its debt in the new entity .
unused1 " This improvement underpins our view that volume growth will surprise on the upside , " said JPMorgan , which repeated an " overweight " rating .
unused1 It thought Cadbury 's UK sales had been sharply below company targets since July .
Whitbread added 1.6 per cent to pound(s)12.69 ahead of results on Tuesday , with Morgan Stanley , UBS and Deutsche Bank advising clients to buy before the release .
unused1 The Anglo-Dutch company 's latest quarterly figures , due tomorrow , are expected to show a 3.6 per cent rise in underlying sales , an improvement on the2.9 per cent achieved in the first quarter .
Tate & Lyle was among the gainers , up 1 per cent to 692p , as ABN Amro said a trade deal on sweeteners between Mexico and the US was positive for the sugar group , and upped its target price from 710p to 775p .
Plumbing specialist Wolseley rose 0.7 per cent to Pounds 11.48 , helped by forecast-beating figures from Travis Perkins - all the more unexpected after a profit warning from the builders ' merchant at the end of last year .
Kazakhmys was protected from the worst of the falls in the mining sector , ending down 0.2 per cent at Pounds 12.49 , as a sharp jump in production prompted Credit Suisse to raise its price target from Pounds 13 to Pounds 15 .
While online gaming stocks suffered another shake-out - PartyGaming fell 3.4 per cent to 105 3/4p and 888 Holdings lost 7.7 per cent to 143p - William Hill edged up 0.4 per cent to 593 1/2p as Citigroup upgraded it to " buy " and said it could yet be a target for a private equity buyer .
Bodycote International rose 4.5 per cent to 237p as Credit Suisse lifted its rating on the industrial heat treatment specialist from " neutral " to " outperform " with a 290p target price .
unused1 The first was in January when he delivered the group 's first profit warning in 20 years , wiping pound(s)5bn off its market capitalisation .
There was no second profit warning , but Tesco managed to mess up the announcement of its dividend - confusing the total with the final dividend - a lack of professionalism that it is difficult to imagine occurring under former chief executive Sir Terry Leahy .
unused1 In the UK , trading profit , which excludes profits from property and exceptional items , fell 1 per cent to pound(s)2.48bn in the year to February 25 , compared with the same period a year previously , and sales from stores open at least a year fell 1.2 per cent in the second half compared with the year earlier .
He insisted that Tesco was " not struggling " , despite the decline in profit in the UK .
unused1 The group reported total sales up 7.4 per cent to pound(s)72bn , with pre-tax profit up 5.3 per cent to pound(s)3.8bn.
unused1 The final dividend was 10.13p , taking the total from 14.46p to 14.76p.
He can point to the 1.1 per cent improvement in like-for-like sales from the 200 stores Tesco has revamped so far , as well as the improvement in overall UK like-for-like sales in the final quarter .
Kabel investors approve EUR7.7bn Vodafone takeover
The EUR7.7bn takeover of Kabel Deutschland by Vodafone won shareholder approval when votes in favour of the deal passed a crucial 75 per cent hurdle last night .
Part of this will be used to cover the acquisition of Kabel , although Vodafone will still be left with a large war chest for more acquisitions .
unused1 Setting a 102p target , he said the pound(s)25.6bn annuities portfolio should be valued only at book value rather than based on future earnings or cash flow .
unused1 Credit Suisse upgraded to " neutral " on valuation grounds .
unused1 Earnings , though up 180 per cent , were slightly weaker than the consensus forecasts , while a working capital outflow meant the group 's cash balances unexpectedly reduced by pound(s)5.3m.
Spirent Communications , the maker of network testing equipment , dropped 6.2 per cent to 126 3/4 p after profit warnings from Juniper Networks and Tellabs .
Laird had earlier set out new growth targets and raised its 2011 dividend by 27 per cent .
unused1 Provident Financial rose 8.4 per cent to pound(s)11.15 on short covering after interim earnings from the subprime money lender were better than feared .
It set a 60p target on Lloyds shares , which rose 4.9 per cent to 53.4p , the highest since May 2011 .
Standard Chartered rose 3.2 per cent to pound(s)16.58 , with Merrill Lynch and SocGen both issuing " buy " advice .
Engineer Meggitt was up 3.8 per cent to 425p on an upgrade to " buy " from Merrill Lynch .
A " buy " recommendation on valuation grounds from Goldman Sachs lifted John Wood Group , the rig services company , by 3.3 per cent to 774p .
unused1 But house broker JPMorgan Cazenove argued that African Barrick still did not merit a " buy " , given weak operational results during the takeover period and a more conservative production outlook .
Aviva eased 2.2 per cent to 373.7p after the sale of its Delta Lloyd stake failed to ease concerns about a dividend cut .
Grafton , the Irish building materials group , rose 6.8 per cent to EUR4.18 after saying its 2012 earnings would beat market expectations .
The update helped lift larger peer Travis Perkins by 4.4 per cent to pound(s)11.67 , with further support from " buy " advice from Liberum Capital .
But BHP Billiton , the world 's largest miner , pleased investors yesterday by delivering a final dividend of 41 cents a share , giving a total of 82 cents for the year to June 30 .
BHP is looking increasingly able to handle the disastrous market conditions , more so than rivals such as Anglo American or Xstrata , which have suspended their dividends until further notice as they struggle with high debt levels .
Alone among its UK mining peers , BHP has a petroleum division , whose operating profits of $4bn made it the group 's third most valuable division during the year after iron ore , which had operating profits of $6.23bn , and base metals with $4.62bn.
It was a testament to the worst year in the mining sector 's living memory that BHP 's annual profits , which on a pre-tax basis fell 50 per cent to $11.6bn , were hailed by analysts as a solid , expectation-beating performance .
unused1 Group revenue fell 16 per cent to just over $50bn .
In the six months to June 30 , Anglo and Xstrata both recorded pre-tax profits plunging by close to 70 per cent year-on-year .
In that period BHP 's profits of $4.72bn were 67 per cent lower than $14.3bn in the six months to June 2008 .
unused1 Earnings per share fell 65 per cent to 58 cents on this basis .
Rudy Markham is to retire as chief financial officer at Unilever , continuing a series of high-profile board changes at the Anglo- Dutch consumer goods group that reported disappointing sales figures with its annual results .
They have been unhappy with the slow pace of change at Unilever , which has not been able to match the sales growth of competitors such as Reckitt Benckiser and Nestle .
Unilever reported underlying sales growth of 3.8 per cent for the full year .
unused1 Annual pre-tax profits rose 7 per cent to Euros 4.8bn ( Pounds 3.2bn ) .
unused1 A final dividend of 32.04p ( 30.09p ) is proposed , making a total of 47.66p ( 45.13p ) .
unused1 In January his replacement as chief executive , Phil Clarke , delivered the supermarket chain 's first profit warning in 20 years .
unused1 Sales over Christmas and the New Year were unusually bad and Mr Clarke 's Big Price Drop initiative failed to bring in the punters .
Tesco 's pre-tax profit last year rose more than 5 per cent and its operating margin went up as well .
unused1 Its revenues increased by more than 7 per cent .
Most importantly , perhaps , for investors , despite recent travails , Tesco 's dividend also went up as well .
unused1 The dividend yield on its shares is a tasty 5.1 per cent - whilst the FTSE 100 is only yielding 3.6 per cent .
Moody 's puts Tesco under review after profit warning
Moody 's , the credit rating agency , has placed Tesco 's A3 long-term senior unsecured rating under review for possible downgrade , following the retailer 's shock profit warning last week .
Moody 's said yesterday that the review followed Tesco 's weak performance in its home market over the crucial Christmas and new year trading period , and the warning that underlying profits in the 2012-13 financial year would be lower than expected .
unused1 " The company 's recent investment in price promotions has not had the anticipated impact on volume growth .
unused1 " More significantly , however , Moody 's believes that the company 's revised forecast for profit growth suggests that the credit metrics may not improve to the extent that had previously been expected for the A3 rating and stable outlook , " the rating agency said yesterday .
However , it said that , more positively , Tesco had not altered its year-end net debt forecast of pound(s)6.4bn , while capital expenditure could be lowered through Tesco curbing its expansion plans , primarily through out of town hypermarkets .
Last week , Tesco issued its first profit warning for 20 years after poor trading in its domestic market .
unused1 FOOD & DRUG RETAILERS ; Total third-quarter sales rise 14.9 % ; Chain performing well in London
Wm Morrison cemented its position as the fastest growing of the listed supermarkets with a third-quarter trading update that left rivals in the shade .
unused1 The grocery chain recorded like-for-like sales growth of 8.1 per cent , excluding petrol , and announced it would buy 38 stores from the Co-operative Group as it invested in expansion .
The trading update , which beat analysts ' expectations , followed an anaemic performance by Tesco , the UK 's biggest retailer , which this week reported 2 per cent like-for-like sales growth during its third quarter and gambled on winning over cash-strapped customers with its " discount brands " strategy .
unused1 " Once again we have grown our like-for-like sales well ahead of the market , " he said .
Morrison 's total sales in the 13 weeks to November 2 rose 14.9 per cent , or 9.5 per cent excluding fuel .
The move is the first big expansion by Morrison since it acquired Safeway in 2004 , a deal that took longer than expected to integrate successfully .
Morrison added it would now curtail its planned share buy-back to finance the pound(s)403m of investments .
Tesco said yesterday it was feeling the effects of the consumer slowdown in its home market as Britain 's biggest retail chain failed to match up to sales expectations .
Tesco said conditions had been more difficult over Christmas , but the 3.1 per cent lift in underlying sales - against expectations of 4-4.5 per cent - in the six weeks to January 5 was a credible effort .
unused1 He said central Europe , where Christmas is widely celebrated , delivered a 30 per cent sales uplift .
unused1 Overall the international business , which now accounts for nearly a quarter of group sales and a fifth of profits , enjoyed sales growth of 26.9 per cent .
unused1 The IGD , the food research body , said yesterday that it expected Tesco 's international turnover to increase by Pounds 30bn ( Dollars 59bn ) to Pounds 74bn by 2012 .
unused1 But it was the UK performance that captured the market 's attention yesterday as the shares dropped 3 per cent on the disappointing trading figures .
Services company Capita lingered on the leaderboard after it reported a 6 per cent rise in profit for 2011 .
A profit warning from Lloyds Banking Group unnerved traders yesterday , making it the biggest faller on the FTSE 100 .
BHP 's total petroleum production fell 4 per cent in the quarter ending March 31 against both the prior quarter and the same period last year .
unused1 Copper production for the world 's biggest miner fell 9 per cent quarter on quarter , reflecting a sector-wide stagnation of the copper supply base despite high prices .
unused1 The impact of flooding in Queensland , Australia was clear in lower production of coking coal , which fell to 6.7m tonnes from 7.8m in the prior quarter and 8.2m in same period last year .
unused1 RBC Capital Markets said it expects quarterly earnings per share for diversified miners to rise 6 per cent against the last quarter and 101 per cent against the same quarter last year .
unused1 Freeport 's first-quarter net profits rose from $897m last year to $1.5bn.
Both BHP and Freeport saw copper production fall by more than 5 per cent in the latest quarter compared with the prior one .
Freeport said on Tuesday it would add a 50 cent supplementary dividend to its 25 cent regular dividend , in the latest indication of the financial windfall it is distributing to shareholders .
unused1 In the three quarters to March it produced 99m tonnes of iron ore , a 6 per cent gain on the same period last time .
unused1 The share slide , which came in spite of a doubling of its dividend and a hefty share buy-back , was prompted by fears that increased competition in the UK and Japan could erode margins .
unused1 Cazenove slashed the stock from " outperform " to " in-line " .
Scottish Power was a leading gainer , rising 6.3 per cent to 469 3/ 4p after the utility combined record profits of more than Pounds 1bn with surprise news of the Dollars 9.4bn sale of PacifiCorp , its US arm .
Marks and Spencer added 1.6 per cent to 342 1/4p as the retailer confirmed a 19 per cent fall in annual sales , capping an eventful year .
Northern Rock , the bank , added 1.7 per cent to 763p , buoyed by a bullish research note from Lehman Brothers , which set a price target of 938p .
unused1 Panmure Gordon said EMI had a tendency to disappoint and slashed its rating on the stock from " hold " to " sell " and its price target from 250p to 200p .
unused1 A sharp jump in profits and higher like-for-like sales were in stark contrast to March 's profit warning .
unused1 Numis upped its price target from 195p to 205p .
SSL rose 0.7 per cent at 265p after the maker of Durex condoms and Scholl footwear returned to profit for the year to the end of March .
Bank of America Merrill Lynch issued a note to its clients predicting the lender could be able to upgrade its earnings forecasts , saying " we think Barclays has turned a corner " .
unused1 Michael Helsby and Chris Roberts , analysts , reiterated a " buy " rating on the stock , citing stronger earnings numbers from US banks .
Marks and Spencer said fourth-quarter like-for-like sales fell 0.7 per cent , confounding hopes of a rise of up to 1.6 per cent in the revenue taken at stores open for at least a year .
Burberry Group was the biggest single faller after its rise in sales for the second half of the year met forecasts but could not extend a strong run in advance of the release of the results .
unused1 Bethany Hocking , analyst at Investec Securities , said : " The shares reached a new high intraday yesterday , and given the lack of upgrades today could see weakness , but we are happy to remain buyers . "
Back among the gainers , free-to-air commercial broadcaster ITV rose 3.9 per cent to 87p after Exane BNP Paribas lifted its rating on the stock from " neutral " to " outperform " .
unused1 Exane also upped its price target on the stock by 15 per cent to 108p .
Daily Mail and General Trust was the biggest single faller on the FTSE 250 after the newspaper publisher warned that interim profits looked set to fall year-on-year .
unused1 It cited falling revenues at its national titles and rising newsprint costs .
Unilever 's chief executive warned of a protracted global economic recovery and price deflation as the maker of Lipton tea and Sunsilk shampoo reported strong third-quarter results .
Paul Polman has won the confidence of investors and analysts this year by delivering steady sales and volume growth , leading to a 36 per cent rise in Unilever 's share price over the past six months - more than double the rise in the FTSE 100 index .
unused1 Yesterday , Mr Polman said his changes , which include turning round underperforming brands and stepping up the pace of innovation , were making a difference as the company beat expectat ions wi th underlying sales growth of 3.4 per cent and volume growth of 3.6 per cent .
James Edwardes Jones , analyst at Execution , said : " Excellent third-quarter results indicate Unilever is doing what it said it would do . "
unused1 Analysts were heartened to see that volume and sales growth , which was delivered in all regions , was not achieved by cutbacks in marketing spending .
Wolseley , the plumbing and building materials group , shed 3.7 per cent to 653 1/2p after Credit Suisse turned negative , downgrading to " underperform " and setting a 540p target price .
Kingfisher , owner of the B&Q DIY chain , fell 3.4 per cent to 132p ahead of today 's trading update and after Investec Securities cut its price target to 115p .
Prosperous Tesco takes retailing to a new level With sales up 6.6 per cent , Sir Terry Leahy is still seeking business .
And Wm Morrison , which is still struggling to absorb its Pounds 3.3bn acquisition of Safeway , is worried about simply getting food on to its shelves as it fights a strike threat from distribution workers .
unused1 Yesterday , it reported a near-19 per cent rise in first-half pre-tax profits and a 6.7 per cent rise in underlying sales in the 24 weeks to August 13 , with second-quarter sales up 6.6 per cent .
First , Tesco is adding more space , with 600,000 sq ft opened in the first half , helping Tesco lift total sales 11.1 per cent to Pounds 14.6bn.
Tesco thinks there is lots of potential to expand the operation , which lifted sales by 31 per cent to Pounds 401m in the first half .
One analyst estimates that between 2 and 3 per cent of Tesco 's underlying sales growth since July 2004 - including petrol where sales have been up more than 8 per cent - has come on the back of competitor weakness , given that Tesco 's typical underlying growth sits in the region of 5 to 6 per cent .
Meanwhile , if Tesco is feeling the effects of cost pressures on a profit of Pounds 908m , it will certainly be taking its toll on Morrison and Sainsbury , with the former heading for a heavy loss this year , while the latter only scraped a profit in the year to May .
unused1 Dow Chemical , the US group , reported a surge in third-quarter profits and revenues thanks in part to demand , particularly in emerging markets , for agricultural chemicals and compounds used in aluminium and paper production .
Meanwhile , BASF , the world 's biggest chemicals company , said sales rose 11.6 per cent to EUR17.6bn compared with the same period in 2010 , although disruptions to its Libyan oil operations dented profits .
unused1 In the third quarter , net income at Dow doubled to about $900m compared with the same period in 2010 , giving earnings per share of $0.69 , despite a $1.7bn rise in the cost of raw materials .
During the three months to the end of September , revenues jumped 17 per cent to $15.1bn , driven by strong sales in Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region that offset declines in the US and Europe and allowed Dow to increase its prices by 17 per cent .
Facet Biotech jumped 66.6 per cent to $27.01 after Abbott Laboratories , which makes the arthritis drug Humira , agreed to buy the biotech company for $27 per share , valuing the company at about $450m .
Fortune Brands , a diversified consumer products conglomerate that owns the Jim Beam whisky brand amongst others , strengthened 1.2 per cent to $47.03 as it announced the sale of its Cobra golf brand to German sports company Puma .
Teen clothing retailer American Eagle Outfitters surged 6.1 per cent to $18.20 after posting sharply better results than analysts had expected , helped by higher sales and its decision to minimise mark downs .
unused1 Net income in the fourth-quarter was $59.3m , up 81.3 per cent from the same period a year ago .
unused1 The company also forecast higher earnings in the first quarter than analysts were looking for .
unused1 The stock was added to Goldman Sachs ' " conviction buy " list .
unused1 Chris Grigg , chief executive , said yesterday that a fall in the number of retailers facing administration had helped boost net income from its retail portfolio by 2.7 per cent in the six months to September 30 , although a 2.3 per cent decline in office income reduced overall like-for-like rental income growth to 0.7 per cent over the period .
unused1 However , it said NAV had rebounded by 3.1 per cent in the second quarter amid encouraging lettings potential as " a positive shift in investor appetite combined with limited stock " benefited market valuations .
unused1 Gross rental income for the six months fell from pound(s)283m to pound(s)240m and a sharp contraction in the impact of negative revaluations , down from pound(s)1.2bn to pound(s)188m , saw pre-tax losses pegged back from pound(s)1.33bn to pound(s)113m .
British Land declared a second quarterly dividend of 6.5p , giving a first-half total of 13p ( 15.53p ) .
unused1 This was uncovered by losses per share of 13p but backed by pound(s)129m of underlying profits , which generated underlying earnings per share of 15p .
Of mid-caps , Findel , the home shopping and educational supplier group , gained 9.8 per cent to 444 1/4p after Kaupthing advised clients to buy .
Yell , the heavily indebted publisher of the Yellow Pages , added 4.4 per cent to 164 1/2p as Morgan Stanley retained its " overweight " recommendation and set a revised target price of 350p - 112 per cent above last night 's closing price .
unused1 The broker said it expected Yell to pay a final dividend of 11.4p and announce a major restructuring when it files full-year results on May 20 .
That said , Vodafone was supported by UBS , which increased its target price to 153p and encouraged investors to " buy " ahead of the company 's eagerly awaited strategy update on May 30 .
unused1 Recent US acquisitions should underpin earnings and dividend growth and we raise our target price by7 per cent to 620p , " broker ING said .
Lloyds TBS improved0.8 per cent 510p with investors attracted by its prospective dividend yield of 6.7 per cent .
Next , off just 0.3 per cent at Pounds 17.45 , registered another robust performance after Man Securities raised its target price from Pounds 19 to Pounds 22.50 ahead of tomorrow 's trading update .
Over the weekend , Enodis revealed it had rejected a 195p-a-share offer from Middleby , a smaller US rival .
Traders expect other offers to emerge for Enodis and are tipping Manitowoc , in Wisconsin , as a likely counter-bidder .
Vodafone reported deteriorating performances at its Spanish and Turkish businesses yesterday , but investors were cheered as the mobile phone operator raised its profit guidance for the full year .
unused1 Sterling 's weakness against other currencies , chiefly the euro , has enabled the UK company to increase its operating profit guidance by pound(s)500m ( $720m ) to a range of pound(s)11.5bn-pound(s)12bn for 2008-09 .
Vodafone generated revenue of pound(s)10.5bn in the three months to December 31 , up 14.3 per cent , largely because of favourable exchange rate movements .
On an underlying basis , revenue fell 1 per cent in the company 's third quarter , partly because Vodafone is selling fewer mobile phones in the economic downturn .
Vodafone 's UK , Italian and German businesses recorded improving revenue trends in the third quarter .
However , Vodafone 's Spanish business saw its revenue fall by 5.8 per cent compared with the same period in 2007-08 .
The picture was even worse at Vodafone 's Turkish business , where revenue fell by 14.5 per cent .
A price war between Indian mobile operators means Vodafone reported lower revenue growth of 30 per cent in the third quarter .
However , Vodafone highlighted how the increase in net debt was more than offset by the rise in value of the company 's international assets .
Unilever shares dipped after the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods conglomerate said underlying sales in the developed world fell in the first quarter .
Unilever , which only gave turnover numbers for the first quarter , said : " The markets for our input materials remain volatile . . . leading to further upward pressure on prices .
unused1 Overall , underlying sales rose 4.3 per cent to EUR10.86bn , driven by emerging markets .
unused1 In Asia , Africa and central and eastern Europe , which make up two-fifths of revenues , sales lifted 8.9 per cent year on year in the first quarter .
unused1 Western European underlying sales fell 2.7 per cent , while prices stayed broadly flat , dragged down by southern Europe and weakness in Germany in savoury and spreads , a sector where overall volumes dropped .
Leading Vodafone investors last night said Arun Sarin , chief executive , had bought himself more time after unveiling plans to give Pounds 9bn to shareholders on top of the UK mobile operator 's 2006 dividend .
unused1 Vodafone reported a record pre-tax loss of Pounds 14.9bn for 2006 , and warned of slowing revenue growth , lower profit margins and reduced free cash flow in 2007 .
unused1 But it increased its dividend pay-out ratio from 45 per cent of adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2005 to 60 per cent in 2006 and declared it the target for the future .
unused1 Vodafone saw core profit , based on its preferred measure of earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation , increase by 7 per cent to Pounds 11.8bn.
unused1 The record pre-tax loss was caused primarily by a Pounds 23.5bn write-down of assets and resulted in a basic loss per share of 27.7p.
unused1 " However , we . . . remain sceptical on Vodafone 's ability to realise its earnings potential . "
Vodafone is braced for investors holding about 10 per cent of its shares to vote against Mr Sarin 's re-election at the company 's annual meeting today , but he insisted he had the right strategy to reverse slowing revenue growth .
Vodafone 's challenges in Europe were underlined yesterday with the publication of better than expected group revenue figures for the first quarter of its 2007 fiscal year .
unused1 It reported revenue growth of 9.2 per cent against the first quarter of 2006 .
unused1 But year- on-year revenue growth in Europe was 0.5 per cent , compared with 62.2 per cent in emerging markets .
Vodafone added a total of 16.2m customers in the quarter , after acquisitions , taking the total to 186.8m.
unused1 It stuck by its guidance of mobile revenue growth of 5-6.5 per cent for 2007 , compared with 9 per cent in 2006 .
unused1 It expects its profit margins to be 1 per cent lower in 2007 .
In May Vodafone reported a record pre-tax loss of Pounds 14.9bn for 2006 .
Some investors are also expected to vent their anger at Vodafone 's plans to lower the earnings growth targets that management must hit for share option awards .
Arun Sarin yesterday sought to dispel fears about slowing revenue growth at Vodafone by saying the mobile phone company would make more acquisitions in Africa and Asia .
Vodafone 's guidance implies revenue growth of 5.6 per cent on a like-for-like basis in 2008-09 , down from 6.6 per cent in 2007-08 .
Vodafone lifted overall revenue by 14.1 per cent to L35.5bn in the year to the end of March .
unused1 From this , it made a pre-tax profit of L9bn , compared with a loss of L2.4bn in 2006-07 .
It was Vodafone 's warning of slowing growth and declining profit margins in 2005 that almost cost Mr Sarin his job the following year .
A US regulator could delay the proposed Barclays ' Euros 3.6bn ( Dollars 4.9bn ) share buy-back unveiled yesterday as part of the UK bank 's revised offer for ABN Amro .
unused1 " We estimate that within five years F&E will make sales of Dollars 12bn , " it said .
Tesco disappointed the City yesterday as it uncharacteristically failed to match up to Christmas trading expectations , ending an 18- month run of outperformance for Britain 's biggest retail chain .
unused1 Andrew Higginson , finance director , defended the 3.1 per cent rise in UK underlying sales as a good performance and rejected concerns that Britain 's shoppers were falling out of love with their biggest retail chain .
unused1 But underlying sales growth of 3.1 per cent in the six weeks to January 5 was less than the 4.1 per cent of Waitrose in a similar period .
It was also below the 3.7 per cent growth for J . Sainsbury in the 12 weeks to December 29 .
Mr Higginson said a comparison with Sainsbury was unfair since Tesco 's rival 's figure covered a longer period and , for the early part of it , Tesco had seen a 4 per cent sales gain .
unused1 Mr Higginson said the group as a whole had lifted sales 12.8 per cent in the six weeks .
unused1 The international business performed better than the UK , with sales over the festive season up 26.9 per cent .
unused1 Total UK sales rose 8 per cent , although general merchandise sales were no longer rising at twice the rate of the food business .
Shares in Heineken dropped sharply on Wednesday after the world 's third-largest brewer lowered its full-year profit outlook .
Heineken said it expected net profit before exceptional items and amortisation to decline by " a low single-digit percentage " in 2013 , having forecast a result " broadly in line " with 2012 .
Unilever suffered its worst rate of quarterly sales growth in four years and issued a sales warning , blaming a slowdown in emerging markets .
unused1 On Thursday it reported underlying sales growth - which strips out acquisitions , disposals and currency fluctuations - of 3.2 per cent in its third quarter , compared with 5 per cent in the preceding two quarters .
Slowing growth in China contributed to a sharp decline in sales for drinks group Pernod Ricard .
unused1 It said revenue in the three months from July was EUR2bn , a fall of 9 per cent from the same period last year .
Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless , but has not received a dividend since 2005 .
Verizon Communications , the US telecoms group and controlling shareholder at Verizon Wireless , has been blocking dividend payments in an apparent attempt to squeeze out Vodafone .
Mr Sarin , meanwhile , will be under pressure to show rapid progress on Vodafone 's new strategy to deal with slowing revenue growth by cutting costs and getting customers to make greater use of mobiles in their homes .
unused1 Mr Sarin has come under sustained criticism from some of Vodafone 's big investors since the company warned last November of slowing revenue growth and lower profit margins .
In May Vodafone reported a record pre-tax loss of Pounds 14.9bn for its 2006 fiscal year .
unused1 Analysts expected Vodafone 's performance figures for the first quarter of its 2007 fiscal year , published today , to show year-on- year declines in average revenue per customer in core European markets such as Germany , Italy and the UK .
Some investors are set to vote against Vodafone 's remuneration report at the annual meeting because of anger at how it plans to lower the earnings growth targets that management must hit for share option awards .
Mr Sarin , meanwhile , will be under pressure to show rapid progress on Vodafone 's new strategy to deal with slowing revenue growth by cutting costs and getting customers to make greater use of mobiles in their homes .
unused1 Mr Sarin has come under fire from some of Vodafone 's big investors since the company warned last November of slowing revenue growth and lower profit margins .
In May , Vodafone reported a record pre-tax loss of Pounds 14.9bn ( Dollars 27.7bn ) for its 2006 fiscal year .
unused1 Analysts said they expected Vodafone 's performance figures for the first quarter of its 2007 fiscal year , published today , to show year-on-year declines in average revenue per customer in core European markets such as Germany , Italy and the UK .
unused1 No halt to the share buy-back programme ( on the contrary , the company says , this would be a good time to buy its own stock on the cheap ) , no let-up in demand from China and India , no problem in getting financing , should it be needed , for further expansion .
unused1 The group has backed its bullish outlook with a rebased dividend a good 5 per cent higher than analysts had expected and nearly 50 per cent up on last year 's final pay-out .
unused1 Still , with most analysts setting their 12-month share price targets at least Pounds 2 above yesterday 's closing level of Pounds 13.65 , that is barely a blip on the radar for Captain Kloppers .
Strong Asian and US sales help BASF to raise dividend by almost 30 %
BASF surprised investors with a dividend increase of almost 30 per cent after strong sales in Asia and the US more than tripled the chemical maker 's full-year net profits .
unused1 The world 's largest chemicals producer by sales on Thursday said it would pay a dividend of EUR2.20 a share - more than analysts had expected - after it had achieved its target to earn a premium on its cost of capital in the past year .
unused1 The German group , long known for its steady pay-out increases , shocked investors last year when it cut its dividend and brought a 15-year period of rising or steady dividends to an end .
unused1 Jurgen Hambrecht , chief executive , hinted at another dividend rise for this year when he said the group expected to earn a high premium once again on the cost of capital in 2011 .
unused1 The outgoing chief executive , who is set to pass the baton in May to Kurt Bock , at present chief financial officer , said the group aimed to slightly increase its sales and to " significantly " lift its income from operations this year .
unused1 In the fourth quarter , BASF sales rose by 25 per cent year on year to EUR16.42bn ( $22.6bn ) , exceeding analysts ' expectations .
unused1 Earnings before interest and tax excluding one-offs climbed to EUR1.77bn but fell short of the EUR1.94bn analysts expected in a poll by news agency Reuters .
BASF said its profit had been dented by more than EUR200m that it set aside for a staff incentive programme and by one-off costs for accelerated plant maintenance .
unused1 In the full year 2010 , the group 's sales and profits climbed to a record .
unused1 The fixed-line telecoms group has been looking to offer mobile services since it demerged from Carphone Warehouse earlier this year .
unused1 Mr Dunstone pointed to the group 's addition of 34,000 net new broadband customers in the first quarter , which was in line with expectations and took the total customer base to 4.2m.
TalkTalk added it was on track to meet guidance for the year to March 2011 , including 6-8 per cent revenue growth and 20 per cent growth in both earnings per share and dividends .
unused1 Total revenue for the first quarter rose 31 per cent year-on-year to pound(s)444m .
unused1 Average revenue per user was pound(s)23.90 , in line with market expectations .
Temasek loses pound(s)500m on Barclays stake sale
unused1 Singapore group loses pound(s)500m on investment ; IPIC makes profit from sale of its stake
Temasek , the Singapore state investment company , sold out of its shareholdings in Barclaysthis year , making an estimated pound(s)500m loss on its investment .
By contrast , Abu Dhabi-based International Petroleum Investment Company generated a healthy profit from its Barclays investment .
Tensions rise at Tesco as chain is set for worst Christmas sales for decades
Tesco is forecast to deliver its worst Christmas sales performance in the UK for decades , amid reports of tensions at the top of Britain 's biggest retailer over its unsuccessful pricecutting campaign .
JPMorgan Cazenove , joint broker to Tesco , is forecasting a 1.5 per cent decline in UK sales from stores open at least a year , in the six weeks to January 7 , representing a sharp deterioration from the previous reported trading period .
Tesco said when it announced the first wave of price cuts in September that UK profit would be broadly flat in the second half of its financial year .
unused1 The central European businesses , bar Poland , suffered falls in profits during the recession .
unused1 " I am pleased we have been able to improve relative performance , we have got back in the lead , " he said , as UK sales rose 4.2 per cent to pound(s)42bn for the year ending February 27 .
unused1 Reporting group sales up 6 per cent to pound(s)57bn over the year , with pre-tax profits up 9 per cent at pound(s)3.2bn , Sir Terry said Asia was a " major engine of growth of the group " .
unused1 He predicted Tesco would dip into a loss of about pound(s)25m in China after a broadly break-even performance .
unused1 The Asian region overall was the star performer , with sales up by a fifth to pound(s)9.01bn and profits up 24 per cent to pound(s)440m .
unused1 In Central Europe , sales fell 0.7 per cent to pound(s)10bn , with trading profit off 4 per cent to pound(s)474m .
unused1 In the US the losses ran to pound(s)165m for the year .
unused1 Group net debt was lower than expected , thanks to property disposals and working capital inflows , at pound(s)7.9bn , against guidance of pound(s)8.5bn.
Though brutal weather in June and July scared off shoppers , Sir Terry Leahy , Tesco 's chief executive , was resolutely upbeat about the future as the retailer reported underlying first-half trading profits of Pounds 1.2bn , a 10 per cent rise year on year .
unused1 Like-for-like sales in the UK , excluding fuel , grew 3.5 per cent , one of the lowest figures in years .
Rival Morrisons ' same-store summer sales were also unimpressive , up just 2.7 per cent year on year , and Tesco 's like-for-like sales improved in August along with the weather .
unused1 Non-food sales , though small , grew faster .
unused1 International sales grew 22 per cent in the first half year on year and accounted for just one-quarter of Pounds 25bn total group sales .
Tesco 's recovery path to start with sales dip
Tesco 's UK underlying sales are set to fall in the first quarter , despite chief executive Philip Clarke 's recovery plan for the retailer 's domestic business .
unused1 In April , Mr Clarke set out a strategic blueprint for Britain 's biggest supermarket chain by market share after its first profit warning in 20 years .
However , City analysts still forecast a decline in sales from Tesco UK stores open at least a year when the retailer reports on June 11 .
unused1 Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , expects a decline in UK like-for-like sales of 1-2 per cent year on year , excluding fuel and VAT , in the retailer 's first quarter .
unused1 With inflation of about 2.5 per cent , the volume of goods sold would be down 3-4 per cent .
unused1 Andrew Kasoulis , analyst at Credit Suisse , forecasts a 1.5 per cent decline .
This compares with a 1.6 per cent drop in UK like-for-like sales in the fourth quarter to the end of February , although it is an improvement on the 2.3 per cent decline over Christmas and the new year , Tesco 's worst performance for decades .
Mr Black said the first-quarter performance would be in line with expectations , as Tesco was just starting to implement the changes Mr Clarke talked about in April , such as putting more staff into supermarkets and introducing improved ready meals .
unused1 " We would not be expecting Tesco to be doing anything other than performing in line with the fourth quarter , slightly underperforming the industry .
unused1 " While we think there probably has been some underlying sales improvement , aided by the very high level of money-off coupons , we think April was weak [ impacted by the weather ] and the calendar will not unwind until the second quarter , " said Mr Kasoulis in a note .
unused1 Analysts expect group sales to rise 9 per cent to pound(s)59bn , and pre-tax profit to rise more than 6 per cent to pound(s)3.3bn.
unused1 Bernstein Research has pencilled in operating profits of pound(s)263m , or 10 per cent of the UK operating profit , for the year to March .
Results in Tesco 's international business - Dave McCarthy at Evolution Securities expects revenues to be 13.4 per cent higher at pound(s)18.3bn - will be mixed , with continental Europe hard hit .
unused1 Shore Capital expects profits there , given the struggles of economies such as the Irish Republic and Hungary , to be down 10 per cent .
Analysts are also pencilling in more losses at Fresh & Easy , Tesco 's US convenience chain , although Clive Black of Shore Capital thinks the chain might have reached its nadir .
Nine months into a plan to overhaul the UK business and one year after its profit warning , Tesco 's Christmas sales figures look relatively underwhelming .
unused1 In the six weeks to January 5 , group like-for-like sales excluding petrol were up 0.3 per cent .
unused1 UK like-for-like sales , excluding petrol and stripping out sales from Clubcard vouchers , were broadly in line with expectations , rising 1.4 per cent , boosted by better food and online sales .
But broker Seymour Pierce points out that this is a poor return considering Tesco has invested 1 per cent of its tight margin this financial year to achieve it , following a profit warning a year ago after the group 's dire performance at Christmas 2011 .
Like-for-like sales in Asia and central Europe continued to decline , while in the US , where Tesco is reviewing its Fresh & Easy business , like-for-like sales fell 2.1 per cent .
As its 10 per cent increase in first half profits yesterday showed , Tesco is about as safe as things come in these uncertain , paranoid times .
unused1 UK underlying sales growth of 3.7 per cent lags behind more price-orientated competitors such as Morrisons and Wal-Mart 's Asda , even if the threat from " deep " discounters such as Aldi is exaggerated .
Tesco 's 4 per cent higher non-food sales came from a significant , unspecified , space rise- meaning sales densities fell .
unused1 Internationally , sales growth of 1 per cent from stores open at least a year is underwhelming , given the amount of space added .
unused1 Underlying sales were flat last year and profit margins declined slightly .
Success overseas is patchy ( the US business is still bleeding cash ; the Chinese one has not broken even as quickly as Tesco expected ) but overall trading profit rose 11 per cent in Europe and 30 per cent in Asia .
Tesco 's net debt is not that large , but capital expenditure is high .
unused1 The dividend payout works out at only about a third of that but , as promised last year , the 11 per cent increase in the interim dividend is in line with earnings growth , boosted by profits from property sales .
These reached Pounds 74m in the first half and are expected to continue apace , as Tesco reduces the amount of property it owns from 85 per cent to about 70 per cent of its portfolio .
unused1 The group 's share buy-back programme is now running , though the Pounds 1.5bn targeted over the next five years is insignificant in the context of the company 's near Pounds 30bn capitalisation .
unused1 Still , a dividend yield approaching 2.8 per cent this year seems acceptable for a company investing heavily in growth opportunities .
unused1 In the UK , like-for-like sales growth in the second quarter of 6.6 per cent year-on-year looks roughly in line , rather than ahead of competitors .
unused1 Yesterday 's first-half results were atrocious , with profits for the UK company down in almost all areas of the business .
unused1 The rate of decline in UK like-for-like sales slowed in the second quarter against the first - from 1.1 per cent to 0.8 per cent - as a turnround plan that involves back-to-basics wisdom such as low prices , more welcoming stores and higher staffing took effect .
unused1 That is a decent start but it can not yet be counted as evidence that January 's profit warning was a blip rather than the start of a long , Carrefour-style decline .
On 10 times forecast earnings , Tesco is at a discount to the likes of Sainsbury ( 12 ) and Walmart ( 14 ) .
But Tesco is no longer the growth story it once was and bargain hunters should hold off until there is more evidence of a recovery than one quarter of improvement in like-for-like sales numbers .
unused1 The UK business , its main earnings engine , increased trading profit by 5 per cent to pound(s)1.3bn on sales 6 per cent higher .
unused1 Strip out the effect of new stores , however , and sales excluding petrol and value added tax fell by 0.5 per cent , mostly in the second quarter .
The outlook is gloomier : Tesco predicts flat profit in the second half from a year ago .
Tesco 's Asian and European operations , where first-half trading profit rose 19 per cent and 12 per cent respectively , should continue to ease the pain .
unused1 Group trading profit , which rose by 3.7 per cent to pound(s)1.8bn , would have been 4.5 percentage points higher without a pound(s)57m one-off provision for personal protection insurance mis-selling claims .
Tesco has little to show for the pound(s)1bn it has spent in the US , other than pound(s)800m of accumulated losses and a 200-store estate that struggled to attract shoppers .
unused1 With the core UK business struggling ( like-for-like sales in the UK fell 1.2 per cent in the third quarter ) , the company is becoming increasingly frugal and picking its targets far more carefully .
Tesco 's lacklustre UK sales growth is concerning when competitors J Sainsbury ( expected to report buoyant figures today ) and Wm Morrison have accelerated like-for-like growth through the recession .
Deep discounters ' market share gains have ground to a halt , and with the anniversary of discount brands ' launch now passed , Tesco says its UK like-for-like sales growth has " converged with the industry " .
Profit growth was also tempered by higher interest costs after Tesco acquired Korea 's Homever chain for pound(s)958m and bought out Royal Bank of Scotland 's 50 per cent share in their financial services joint venture for pound(s)950m last year .
International sales - now one-third of Tesco 's total - should accelerate as markets in central Europe and Asia pull out of the doldrums .
unused1 Food & DRUG Retailers ; Group says it is catching UK rivals ; International sales buoy first quarter
Tesco insisted it was narrowing the gap on faster-growing UK rivals Wm Morrison , J Sainsbury and Asda , as international sales buoyed its first-quarter performance .
The comments come ahead of first-quarter figures today from Sainsbury , which are expected to reveal a 6.4 per cent increase in like-for-like sales .
unused1 Demand for non-food items was also picking up , with " modest " like-for-like sales growth resuming in recent weeks .
unused1 Group sales for the 13 weeks to May 30 rose 9.7 per cent including petrol , and 12.6 per cent excluding such sales .
International sales rose 20.1 per cent , or 11.4 per cent at constant exchange rates , boosted by Asian markets , but held back by Ireland where Tesco has been trying to stem the flow of cross-border shoppers seeking bargains in Northern Ireland .
Sales in the US - where Tesco has been forced to slow its expansion plans - almost tripled , although Mr McIlwee acknowledged that the US operation was an " immature and small business " .
Tesco 's personal finance operation contributed 2.2 percentage points to overall UK sales growth of 9.3 per cent .
unused1 " The customer count is increasing steadily , " said Mr McIlwee .
Second , price-led formats are thriving - Aldi , the German-owned discounter , says total UK sales rose 22 per cent in December .
unused1 The step-up in its Christmas sales from the previous quarter suggests the initiative is paying off - and could start denting the currently superior performance of rival supermarket groups Sainsbury , Wm Morrison , and Wal-Mart 's Asda .
Tesco led the wider market lower after reporting weaker than expected non-food sales over Christmas .
Dixons Retail also blamed the pre-Christmas snow for a profit warning , sending its shares down 10 per cent to 21 1/4 p.
But Argos owner Home Retail Group bounced 10.2 per cent to 227p amid short covering after its holiday sales proved better than feared .
Car insurer Admiral Group took on 2.9 per cent to pound(s)15.69 , helped by " buy " advice from Redburn Partners .
unused1 So much for record Pounds 2bn profit , gangbuster sales growth and a market share above 30 per cent .
However , most analysts expect underlying sales growth of 5 to 6 per cent , which would be up to Pounds 900m more than Tesco officially budgeted for .
unused1 Some already have their eye on Pounds 3bn in profit in coming years .
Boots , which last week reported a 11.4 per cent decline in profit before exceptionals to Pounds 481m , is one of the many retailers that has been hit by the march of supermarkets into the health and beauty market .
unused1 Morgan Stanley reiterated its " buy " recommendation and 380p price target on the stock .
Vodafone shares fell to their lowest level for four years yesterday as the market continued to digest a recent profit warning from rival Deutsche Telekom .
Meanwhile , ABN Amro cut itsrecommendation on the stock from " buy " to " hold " , citing Vodafone 's exposure to European competition .
Schroders recorded its biggest fall in four years , sliding 9.5 per cent to 872p after the banking group unveiled an unexpected drop in funds under management in the second quarter .
unused1 Teather & Greenwood cut its recommendation on the stock from " buy " to " hold " , saying it was concerned over the level of UK institutional outflows at the fund management group - a " thorn in the company 's side " , according to the broker .
On the upside , steelmaker Corus advanced 1.6 per cent to 388 1/ 4p as record third quarter numbers from European peer Thyssenkrupp encouraged buyers .
Biofuels rallied 6 per cent to 96p as Collins Stewart , house broker , reminded investors that the biodiesel producer was now cash generative and repeated its 135p price target .
According to industry data from Kantar Worldpanel , the consumer research group , Tesco experienced stronger than expected sales growth over the past four weeks .
unused1 In the four weeks to November 25 , sales through Tesco 's tills rose 2.7 per cent year on year , ahead of the market at 2.5 per cent , and making it the fastest growing of the so-called big four supermarkets .
Tesco 's grocery sales rose 5.2 per cent in the four weeks to November 25 , according to Kantar , compared with the market at 3.1 per cent , indicating that the retailer 's performance is being dragged down by sales of non-food items .
unused1 The brighter picture comes ahead of today 's third-quarter update , when it is forecast to report flat to slightly negative sales growth for the three months to the end of November .
This is a slowdown from the second quarter , when Tesco had its first rise in UK like-for-like sales for two years , up 0.1 per cent in the three months to the end of August .
Analysts at Deutsche Bank , joint broker to Tesco , forecast a 0.8 per cent decline in Tesco 's UK like-for-like sales in the third quarter , driven mostly by weakness in non-food , while Shore Capital forecasts flat sales to a 1 per cent decline .
unused1 However , Dave McCarthy , analyst at Investec Securities , said it was possible Tesco 's sales could be better than forecast , as recent trading will have been " flattered by the timing and nature of promotions " .
Tesco is also facing headwinds from overseas , with like-for-like sales in its lossmaking US business forecast to rise by 4-5 per cent , according to Shore Capital .
unused1 This would be only marginally ahead of the 3.6 per cent increase in the first quarter , regarded as disappointing by the market .
While Tesco experienced better trading in the past four weeks , sales growth slowed at J Sainsbury , from 5.3 per cent in October to 1.4 per cent in November .
Sainsbury 's grocery sales rose by 1 per cent .
Wm Morrison sales fell 1.7 per cent in November , according to Kantar .
In a year peppered with job losses , profit warnings and missed targets , Tesco managed to buck the wider malaise in the retailing sector and provided the high point of 2005 when it became the first UK retailer to break the Pounds 2bn profit barrier .
Rival Wm Morrison 's woes were some of the most prominent stories of the yearas the UK 's fourth-largest supermarket struggled with the integration of its Pounds 3.3bn acquisition of Safeway in March 2004 .
unused1 The Bradford-based retailer , led by 74-year-old Sir Ken Morrison , grappled with four profit warnings in a few months as the management team was forced to admit its internal accounting team could not cope with the enlarged business .
unused1 Then , over in Leeds , Andy Bond , Asda 's chief executive , announced that the UK 's second-largest supermarket group was also in trouble as it missed two consecutive quarters of internal sales and profit targets .
Richard Baker from Boots came under pressure after dishing out two rapid profit warnings on the back of worsening trading .
But that turned out to be a smokescreen for a far bigger deal : the proposed Pounds 7bn merger between Boots and Alliance UniChem .
JPMorgan said the acquistion gave Tesco a chance to close the gap on Shinsegae 's E-mart , which has sales of Won9,000bn ( Pounds ? ? bn ) , against Tesco 's Won5,900bn .
Tesco chief cautious despite store 's pound(s)3.1bn record profit
In the midst of the worst recession of a generation , Sir Terry Leahy proved his calibre once again yesterday as he overcame the obvious obstacles to deliver yet another year of record profits and growth at Tesco .
unused1 Against the backdrop of a global downturn , trading profit rose 8.8 per cent year-on-year to pound(s)3.1bn ( $4.5bn ) .
As consumers across many of Tesco 's 14 markets tighten their belts , it lifted group sales by 13.5 per cent to pound(s)60bn .
Even in the UK , where Tesco 's underlying sales growth of 3 per cent for the year is clearly lagging rivals Wm Morrison and Asda , Sir Terry still turned in a best-in-class trading margin of 6.2 per cent , helped by some crafty cost-cutting ( to the tune of pound(s)540m in the past financial year ) .
unused1 First , the retailer 's net debt has ballooned to pound(s)9.6bn from pound(s)6.2bn in the past year .
Instead of breaking even this year , Tesco is now looking at another year of losses .
Having committed to invest up to pound(s)1.25bn in the chain in the five years to 2012 , Fresh & Easy , racked up another pound(s)140m of losses this year .
Philip Clarke , chief executive of Tesco , claimed an early victory in his pound(s)1bn battle to turn round Tesco 's UK business after a profit warning a year ago , as he confirmed a reshuffle of his top team .
unused1 The retailer said UK sales rose 1.8 per cent year-on-year in the six weeks to January 5 , on a " like-for-like " basis that strips out new store openings , petrol sales and the VAT sales tax .
The Christmas trading figures were much better than Tesco 's dire performance over the same six-week period a year earlier , when it posted a like-for-like sales decline of 2.3 per cent in the UK .
unused1 That setback prompted the group 's first profit warning in two decades and a subsequent commitment to invest pound(s)1bn in turning round the UK business .
He said Tesco had been galvanised to produce a better performance after the shock of the profit warning last year .
Tesco said like-for-like sales in Europe fell 3.6 per cent , and 2.1 per cent in the US .
unused1 Like-for-like sales in Asia fell 0.2 per cent .
Fresh & Easy business put on notice by Clarke ; Retailer reports 12 % fall in pre-tax profit
unused1 Philip Clarke , chief executive of Tesco , issued an ultimatum to Fresh & Easy , its struggling US business , as he unveiled the retailer 's first fall in pre-tax profits for almost 20 years .
unused1 Mr Clarke , who also reported Tesco 's first increase in under-lying UK sales for almost two years , said Fresh & Easy needed to " persuade " him it had a future with the group .
He said Fresh & Easy had " stumbled " in the first half , disappointing with losses of pound(s)74m , broadly the same as last year .
Mr Clarke 's comments came as a pound(s)1bn investment to turn round Tesco 's UK business , plus a decline in international earnings , cut group pre-tax profits by 12 per cent to pound(s)1.66bn in the six months to August 25 , the first fall for 18 years .
unused1 However , Mr Clarke was able to point to some improvement in the UK , which in January was the source of the group 's first profit warning in 20 years . .
unused1 Sales from UK stores open at least a year rose 0.1 per cent in the second quarter , excluding fuel and value added tax , against a 1.5 per cent decline in the first quarter and a 2.3 per cent fall over the crucial Christmas and New Year period .
However , this was overshadowed by J Sainsbury , which reported better than expected like-for-like sales growth of 1.9 per cent , excluding fuel and VAT .
Tesco was hit by falling earnings in the UK , Europe and Asia , after regulatory changes in South Korea , its biggest business outside its home market .
unused1 Some analysts continued to trim their earnings estimates , with Shore Capital 's forecast that full-year pre-tax profits excluding property would fall by up to pound(s)150m to pound(s)3.15bn.
unused1 Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , forecasts UK sales from stores open at least a year , excluding fuel and value added tax , to grow 1-2 per cent year on year for the six weeks to January 8 .
Tesco rallied to its best level since last year 's profit warning yesterday as analysts backed the group to regain investors ' trust .
With hypermarkets making up 92 per cent of Tesco 's Korean floorspace , like-for-like sales in the country may have dropped 8 per cent this year , it said .
unused1 Car insurer Admiral bounced 5.3 per cent to pound(s)11.34 after its annual earnings and dividend topped expectations .
unused1 A dividend hike from Legal & General also beat forecasts , lifting its stock 2 per cent to 166p .
Petropavlovsk faded 5.1 per cent to 274.5p , with RBC analysts highlighting that the gold miner had the sector 's highest debt gearing .
unused1 Salamander Energy rose 3.4 per cent to 211.2p after Jefferies started coverage with " buy " advice and a 300p target .
Tesco Christmas sales up 5.9 % *Organic foods boost UK 's biggest retail chain*Demand for premium ranges reflects trend
Tesco underlined its UK strength yesterday when the nation 's biggest retail chain reported a 5.9 per cent rise in underlying sales over the Christmas period , helped by strong demand for organic food , cashmere sweaters and flat-screen televisions .
unused1 The chain said sales of organic foods rose 39 per cent , as its like-for-like performance came in just ahead of analysts ' expectations .
Sainsbury 's premium sales grew by a fifth over the quarter .
Wm Morrison - the best-performing supermarket chain over Christmas , with sales up 6.3 per cent - saw its premium lines grow 40 per cent .
Marks and Spencer is thought to have seen sales of organic produce rise by half over the six-week Christmas window .
Tesco 's online division , which includes the first-time contribution of Tesco Direct , also saw strong growth , with sales up more than 30 per cent to Pounds 150m .
unused1 International sales , however , came in short of expectations with growth of 15.8 per cent because of weakness in Thailand and Hungary .
Tesco confident for US venture as sales rise after revamp
general retailers ; Fresh & Easy set for full-year loss
Tesco said its group sales had risen 8.8 per cent , excluding fuel , in the 13 weeks to November 28 , while its international sales had risen 12 per cent , excluding fuel , or 5.4 per cent excluding the effect of currency movements .
unused1 The decline in international sales from stores open at least a year narrowed from 6.7 per cent to 3.7 per cent at constant exchange rates .
unused1 Sales at Tesco 's US business rose 37.4 per cent .
The retailer said like-for-like sales were stronger at Fresh & Easy , after an overhaul of the range in September and its first significant advertising campaign .
unused1 It expects the business to be on track to make a loss over the full year close to its $259m deficit last year .
unused1 It reported an increase in UK sales from stores open at least a year of 2.8 per cent , below the 3 per cent forecast by analysts polled by Reuters , and slower than the 3.1 per cent expansion in the second quarter .
Tesco hit a four-month low yesterday as analysts raised fears that the grocer would cut earnings guidance .
unused1 Analysts expect Tesco 's trading update due tomorrow to show that sales growth had stalled since Christmas , with same-store sales expected to be down by about 0.5 per cent .
Heritage Oil was up 4 per cent to 147.5p after Goldman Sachs added the explorer to its " buy " list .
Fastjet , the African low-cost airline , slumped 33.5 per cent to 0.8p amid a profit warning .
unused1 Mr Brockwell , who retains a " buy " rating , believes a deal could yield synergies of pound(s)493m and lift earnings per share by 14-20 per cent .
unused1 Should that happen , the theory is that BHP would then make another bid for Rio , offering 2.3 of its shares for every Rio share .
Invensys , the controls and automation group , added 4 per cent to 294 1/2 p after Evolution Securities reiterated its " buy " recommendation ahead of half- year results due on Thursday .
Cairn Energy eased 0.1 to pound(s)26.41 in spite of a big push from Deutsche Bank , which increased its target price to pound(s)32.40 to reflect the potential of the explorer 's assets in Greenland .
Tesco expected to deliver record Pounds 2.5bn profits with a 12 % increase COMPANIES DIARY
* Debenhams , thedepartment store chain , is expected to reportinterim pre-tax profitsof about Pounds 100m when it announces preliminary results .
unused1 The retailerhas struggled in termsof sales and share priceperformance since returning to the stock market lastMay and investors will be hoping for positive signals from Rob Templeman , the chief executive .
unused1 Last month , he revealed a lacklustre set of trading figures for the 26 weeks to March 3 , with like-for- like sales down 4.5 per cent , and pledged to manage stock , cash and margins in the absence of more money going through the tills .
* Tesco is expected to deliver yet another set of record profits , up 12 per cent to Pounds 2.5bn , when it releases its annual results on sales at the Pounds 43bn mark .
Samuel and ErnestJones in the UK , is expected to report full-yearpre-tax profits ofabout Pounds 208m , thanks mainly to its US division , whichis recording superiorsales growth .
unused1 In the crucial trading period in thenine weeks to December30 , like-for-like sales forthe group rose 5.9 per cent , with the US - which includes the Kay chain and makes up almost three-quarters of total sales -adding 7.5 per cent , compared with 1.7 percent in the UK .
Tesco expects Pounds 300m profit rise
unused1 * UK 's biggest supermarket group reports strong first-quarter sales growth
Tesco yesterday batted off the trading woes besetting the high street as Britain 's biggest supermarket group reported a strong rise in first-quarter sales .
unused1 The strong performance puts Tesco on track to increase its profits by more than Pounds 300m this year , which is the same amount of profit that J Sainsbury , its nearest quoted competitor , is set to make , according to Andrew Fowler , of house broker Merrill Lynch .
unused1 Andy Higginson , finance director , described the 6.8 per cent rise in like-for-like sales growth excluding fuel in the 12 weeks to May 21 as " exceptional " .
Wm Morrison , the fourth largest supermarket group , has issued five profits warnings in less than a year as it struggles to integrate Safeway , while Asda 's new chief executive , Andy Bond , admitted recently that the second largest supermarket group was also struggling to boost sales .
unused1 The news led Merrill to trim its profit forecast for the division by Pounds 11m , although it left full year group forecasts unchanged at Pounds 2.32bn.
Tesco 's international business , which accounted for one-fifth of Tesco 's Pounds 37.1bn sales last year , was also " performing well " , with underlying sales up 5.5 per cent .
unused1 Overall group sales rose 14.6 per cent , with international sales up 19.9 per cent and the UK up 11.3 per cent .
unused1 In the first quarter , Tesco 's underlying sales growth in the UK fell to its lowest level in at least six years as falling food price inflation took its toll on the world 's third-largest grocer by sales .
Tesco showed yesterday it was not immune to weakening consumer confidence as the UK 's biggest retailer reported the first slowdown in underlying sales growth for two years .
unused1 Andy Higginson , finance director , said the 5.5 per cent rise in underlying sales in the 14 weeks to November 19 - against 6.6 per cent in the previous quarter - was " very strong " when taken against the retailer 's " longer-term historical performance " .
Andrew Fowler , analyst at Merrill Lynch , yesterday kept his full- year pre-tax profit forecast unchanged at Pounds 2.16bn , adding : " There must have been some people who thought Sir Terry was just talking Tesco down .
unused1 " That 5.5 per cent rise ( in underlying sales ) is twice the size of Sainsbury 's ( growth ) , " said Mr Fowler .
unused1 Overall sales in the UK rose 11.6 per cent , against 10.9 in the previous quarter .
unused1 Growth in non-food sales was below the 13 per cent reported in the last quarter but still in double-digits .
unused1 He also said the international business was " slightly ahead " of expectations , with sales up 16 per cent at constant exchange rates .
Tesco forecasts UK sales rebound
Tesco , Britain 's biggest supermarket chain by market share , is expected to move back into growth in its home market , when it reports sales figures this Tuesday , providing an early boost to new chief executive Philip Clarke .
unused1 JPMorgan Cazenove , joint broker to Tesco , forecasts sales growth from UK stores open at least a year , excluding fuel and VAT , of 0.5-0.6 per cent in the 13 weeks to May 28 .
unused1 This is an improvement on the final quarter of the 2010-2011 financial year , when like-for-like sales fell by 0.7 per cent .
Tesco was the fastest growing of the big four supermarkets during the period , expanding sales by 10.5 per cent .
J Sainsbury is also due to report its first-quarter sales on Wednesday .
unused1 Mr Black forecasts like-for-like sales growth of 1.5 per cent to 2 per cent , excluding fuel but including VAT , also an improvement on the 1 per cent growth in the 10 weeks to March 19 .
unused1 The country 's biggest retailer , which reported an unexpected slowdown in sales growth in the past three months , said yesterday it was looking closely at whether to pass on the higher rate of VAT to customers .
Shares in Tesco tumbled 2.3 per cent to 425.45p after it reported UK sales growth from stores open at least a year of 2.8 per cent , slightly below the consensus forecast of analysts polled by Reuters .
unused1 Total sales across the group rose 8.8 per cent , excluding fuel .
unused1 The supermarket group has suffered several downgrades to profit forecasts as a result of restrictions imposed on big retailers ' store opening hours in South Korea , which are expected to hit its sales and profits .
These international pressures come at a delicate time for Tesco , which issued its first profit warning in 20 years in January after the worst performance from its UK business in decades .
unused1 JPMorgan Cazenove and Nomura , both brokers to Tesco , have each cut their forecasts of Tesco 's pre-tax profit this year , excluding property profits , by 2 per cent to about pound(s)3.5bn - reflecting a pound(s)70m reduction in profits from Korea .
unused1 Mr Black noted that the group faced other pressures outside its UK heartland , including a sharp slowdown in sales growth at Fresh & Easy , its lossmaking US business .
He has cut his forecast of Tesco 's pre-tax profit excluding property profits this year by 5.6 per cent to pound(s)3.35bn , to reflect lower expectations for Korea , the US , central Europe and the UK .
At the same time , Mr Black has raised his forecast of losses at Fresh & Easy by pound(s)13m to pound(s)103.3m for this year .
unused1 With losses of pound(s)52.3m forecast for the year to February 2014 , this would take Fresh & Easy 's cumulative losses to more than pound(s)800m .
unused1 In 2012 , Mr Truman expects Tesco 's overseas division to generate sales of Pounds 24bn and earnings before interest and tax of Pounds 1.23bn.
To put that figure in context , J Sainsbury and Wm Morrison combined are expected to generate underlying earnings of just more than Pounds 1bn in 2008 .
Morrison added 2.8 per cent to 280 1/2p after Deutsche Bank increased its target price to 335p ahead of next Thursday 's half- year figures .
unused1 In it analyst Geoff Ruddell downgraded to " underweight " , cut his target price to 135p and said DSG 's dividend was unsustainable and could be cut by its new chief executive next summer .
Its shares fell 2.8 per cent to 95p after Merrill Lynch downgraded to " sell " and said FKI might have trouble executing its strategic plan and paying down debt .
Sports Direct International fell 4.6 per cent to a record low of 131p after rival JJB Sports , down 14.2 per cent to 172 1/4p , issued a profits warning .
Royal Bank of Scotland led Friday 's blue-chip risers , up 5.6 per cent to 42.p , after its first-quarter results proved better than expected .
BG Group , which posts quarterly results on Tuesday , rose 2.1 per cent to [ pound]14.35.
ITV rose 4.9 per cent to 75.p ahead of a trading update due Wednesday , which analysts have forecasted to be very weak due to a sharp decline in advertising sales over April .
" We believe ITV 's current share price has already factored in the worse-thanexpected second quarter , " said JPMorgan Cazenove .
unused1 The update " may be an opportunity to buy the stock as we believe the worse-than-expected secondquarter revenues for European free TV are not the sign of a structural change in the advertising recovery , but a blip , " it said .
But Brewin Dolphin rose 3.3 per cent to 173.p after Peel Hunt started coverage with a 205p target price .
unused1 It forecast continuing growth in assets under management to drive 18 per cent compound earnings growth over the next three years .
" Cobham is the European defence company that is best addressing a shrinking defence market , " said Citigroup , which added the stock to its " buy " list .
unused1 Interim results on Wednesday revived worries that the main drag on the retailer 's earnings and cash flow was unprofitable expansion , rather than repair work following its profit warning in January .
But Citi blamed the earnings slump on Tesco 's expansion programme , which it said was creating " adverse sales leverage " .
Tesco closed 3 per cent lower at 318.2p , its sharpest fall since the January profit warning .
InterContinental Hotels rose 1.8 per cent to pound(s)16.69 after Marriott International 's earnings beat forecasts , although the US group also tempered guidance for the current quarter on international weakness .
Halfords jumped 14.1 per cent to 303.5p after reporting its best like-for-like sales in more than three years .
unused1 The retailer , which also appointed a new chief overnight , reported impr-oved sales in all categories , led by demand for bicycles .
unused1 Seymour Pierce added the stock to its " buy " list following an analyst 's visit to the company 's main warehouse .
unused1 Polymer bank-notes have been steadily gaining acceptance across the world and can add 6 per cent to De La Rue 's sales by 2015 , it said .
A profit warning sent Promethean World , the electronic whiteboard maker , dropping 26.3 per cent to 17.5p.
Industrial chain maker Renold , down 21.7 per cent to 20.8p , also warned that profits would miss forecasts because of weaker demand throughout Europe .
Tesco was optimistic about Christmas trading , as Britain 's biggest retail chain reported third-quarter underlying sales up 5.6 per cent , write Elizabeth Rigby and Tom Griggs .
unused1 Reporting underlying sales in line with expectations , Andrew Higginson , finance director , said non-food areas such as gifts and toys had been performing particularly well , with sales in these products growing at double-digits .
unused1 Group sales , excluding petrol , grew 10.3 per cent in the 13 weeks to November , with UK sales up 8.5 per cent .
unused1 At a group level , sales and profits in the six months to the end of August were all heading in the right direction , driven by a recovery in many of Tesco 's international markets in central Europe and in Asia .
unused1 Indeed , Sir Terry was able to reveal a 12.5 per cent increase in first-half pre-tax profit to pound(s)1.6bn , on sales excluding VAT up 7.1 per cent to pound(s)29.8bn , as economies recovered in Asia and Europe .
unused1 Underlying profit , which excludes exceptional items and goodwill amortisation , rose 14.1 per cent to pound(s)1.79bn.
unused1 Earnings per share jumped 14 per cent from 12.93p to 14.72p , and the interim dividend is lifted 12.3 per cent to 4.37p.
unused1 Sir Terry , who retires in March , was also able to announce a fall in net debt , which has worried some analysts , from pound(s)9.5bn a year ago to pound(s)7.6bn , with net borrowings expected to fall to pound(s)7bn at the year end .
Losses at Fresh & Easy , which will have about 165 stores after the mothballing , increased from pound(s)85m to pound(s)95m in the first half , reflecting the cost of acquiring the operations of two suppliers .
unused1 In the UK , sales from stores open at least a year , excluding VAT and petrol , rose 0.3 per cent in the first half .
unused1 This was made up of 0.1 per cent growth in the first quarter and 0.4 per cent growth in the second .
unused1 He forecasts that rival J Sainsbury will on Wednesday report first-half UK like-for-like sales growth of 1.6 per cent .
Philip Clarke was in buoyant mood yesterday for a chief executive who has just announced the worst full-year pre-tax profit decline in Tesco 's history .
unused1 In consequence , the sale-and-leasebacks that generated pound(s)3bn in profits from the mid-1990s will no longer support earnings .
unused1 But Mr Clarke has at least attempted to confine this to a range : mid single-digit trading profit growth delivering a return of 12 to 15 per cent on capital , which will be invested at a rate of 3.5 to 4 per cent of sales .
Tesco poised to make profits history
Tesco is expected to make corporate history on Tuesday by being the first UK retailer to announce profits in excess of pound(s)3bn , but celebrations are likely to be short-lived , writes Samantha Pearson .
unused1 While the group remains Britain 's biggest supermarket chain , it has been gradually losing market share in the downturn as its rivals lure customers with recession-friendly discounts .
Investors will therefore be awaiting evidence in the full-year results that Tesco 's attempts to adapt its offering through monitoring customer spending have helped to maintain UK sales growth .
The other talking point will be Tesco 's net debt , which although still manageable is likely to exceed the group 's previous target of pound(s)8bn and could stunt short-term store growth .
unused1 Tesco , however , is likely to reassure long-term investors with promising performance from its recent acquisition in South Korea and words of encouragement on its new initiative to introduce 30 in-store banks this year .
unused1 Pre-tax profits are forecast at just more than pound(s)3bn from expected revenues of pound(s)53.5bn , according to consensus analyst estimates from Thomson Reuters .
Since its profit warning in January , Tesco has set out to revive UK sales by investing in store refits , staffing and improved product ranges .
B&Q owner Kingfisher lost 1.8 per cent to 274.9p ahead of first-quarter results due Thursday , which were widely expected to disappoint because of inclement April weather .
" We expect like-for-like sales in the UK will be the worst Kingfisher has reported in at least the last decade , " said Bernstein Research .
Capita was up 3 per cent to 629p after UBS added the outsourcer to its " buy " list .
unused1 Two years of declining organic revenue and increased acquisitions had weighed on returns and pushed the stock 's valuation to an all-time low , said UBS .
" We would expect Rexam to clarify the use of proceeds upon announcing the transaction , " said Merrill Lynch , which repeated " buy " advice .
" If we assume pound(s)250m-300m is returned , this equates to 7 per cent - 9 per cent of the market capitalisation , in addition to Rexam 's recurring 3.5-4.0 per cent dividend yield . "
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , is forecasting losses from Fresh & Easy of about pound(s)80m ( $127.4m ) in the six months to August 22 .
Tesco will also be under pressure to show that its UK underlying sales performance is catching up with faster growing rivals , as it is lagging behind Asda , J Sainsbury and Wm Morrison in UK like-for-like sales growth .
unused1 Net debt ballooned to pound(s)9.6bn at the end of the year to February 28 .
unused1 He forecasts first half pre-tax profit of pound(s)1.57bn.
Among the other leading UK retailers , J Sainsbury is due to report second-quarter sales on Wednesday , with the consensus of analysts ' forecasts for a 5.5 per cent increase in like-for-like sales , down from 7.8 per cent in the first quarter , amid falling food price inflation .
In the last financial year , Tesco 's online sales accounted for just less than two per cent - Pounds 577m - of total group sales of Pounds 33.5bn.
But this year - Tesco announces its year-end results on April 12 - it is thought that the retailer 's internet sales will have grown strongly after a buoyantChristmas .
unused1 In the six months to August 14 online sales were up 27 per cent at Pounds 307m , while pre-tax profit was at Pounds 15m .
That is double the annual sales of JSainsbury and Ocado , the internet only retailer that sells Waitrose products , indicating the might of Tesco 's online reach .
Tesco has been downgraded by Moody 's , the credit rating agency , just days after the retailer unveiled a pound(s)1bn recovery plan for its core UK business .
unused1 Moody 's said it had cut Tesco 's long-term senior unsecured rating by one notch from A3 to Baa1 because the pound(s)1bn plan would weigh on earnings .
" It will take time for Tesco to reap the benefits of the measures it has announced in order to revive profit growth in its key UK market to levels seen in previous years , especially in the current unfavourable environment which will not support Tesco 's sales growth , " said Yasmina Serghini-Douvin , senior analyst at Moody's .
Tesco on Wednesday announced a pound(s)1bn plan for reviving its performance in the UK - which accounts for about two-thirds of sales and profits - after making its first profit warning in 20 years in January .
Tesco said : " Earlier this week we announced record group profits and strong international growth .
Tesco has left open the possibility of a bid for Tansas , one of the top three Turkish supermarket chains .
Tesco rules out big acquisition in US
Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive of Tesco , has ended speculation over possible deals in the US after he said the world 's fifth- largest retailer had no plans to make a large acquisition there .
Tesco , which will update the market on Christmas trading next week , nowgenerates just over onefifth of its sales outside the UK , from 12 overseasmarkets across Europe and Asia .
Tesco sales fall despite pound(s)500m in price cuts
The comments came as Tesco revealed that its programme of pound(s)500m of price cuts launched in September had failed to improve sales at its UK stores that had been open for at least a year .
unused1 UK like-for-like sales , excluding fuel and VAT , fell by 0.9 per cent in the 13 weeks to November 26 , compared with the year earlier period , similar to the preceding quarter .
unused1 Mr McIlwee defended the performance , saying that the volume of goods sold in the third quarter rose by about 1 percentage point , outperforming the market by about 2 percentage points in terms of volume , according to industry data .
unused1 Group sales rose 5.5 per cent year on year , excluding fuel and exchange-rate fluctuations .
unused1 Like-for-like sales rose 12 per cent at its US chain .
Tesco sees confidence return with rise in sales
Tesco said that total sales rose by 8.2 per cent in the 13 weeks to November 27 , driven by improvements both at home and overseas .
unused1 UK sales rose 5 per cent excluding fuel but including VAT .
unused1 Laurie McIlwee , finance director , said the performance strengthened throughout the quarter , with UK like-for-like sales up 2.1 per cent , excluding fuel and VAT in the final four weeks .
unused1 Food price inflation was 0.7 per cent lower in the third quarter than the second , and volumes were positive , he said .
unused1 Although there were some unknowns , such as the impact of food price inflation , rising petrol prices and the hike in VAT , Mr McIlwee said : " I feel we will have a good [ fourth quarter ] .
unused1 I expect us to improve upon the third quarter like-for-like [ increase ] of 1.5 per cent , so it will be a good and improving performance in the UK and internationally . "
unused1 Sales of Tesco 's Finest range of premium foods were up more than 10 per cent compared with two years ago , while non-food sales were up 3 per cent .
unused1 But Mr McIlwee said that if UK sales were reported in accordance with the accounting standard for loyalty schemes , then they would have been 0.2 per cent higher in the third quarter .
unused1 Outside the UK , total international sales rose 15.2 per cent .
unused1 Like-for-like sales rose 9.8 per cent in the US , while they were positive across all European markets for the first time in three years .
Tesco shares climb on strong UK sales growth
Shares in Tesco climbed to a record high yesterday as sales at the UK 's largest retailer raced ahead in the third quarter , quashing earlier fears of a slowdown in growth .
unused1 The supermarket group unveiled a 12.2 per cent rise in sales in the 14 weeks to November 20 , the strongest quarterly performance in five years , as it won market share in a fiercely competitive UK market and pushed harder into eastern Europe and Asia .
unused1 But like-for-like sales at Tesco 's core UK business accelerated 9.8 per cent in the third quarter , rising from 8.8 per cent in the second quarter and 7.8 per cent in the first three months .
Tesco , which now pockets Pounds 1 of every Pounds 8 spent in the UK retail market , saw total UK sales growth of 12.3 per cent .
unused1 " These are stunningly good results , " said Richard Ratner , an analyst at Seymour Pierce , who inched up his full-year pre-tax profit forecast from Pounds 2.01bn to Pounds 2.02bn.
unused1 Excluding petrol sales , like- for-like UK growth was 7.5 per cent .
unused1 But sales at Tesco 's international operations , which account for more than half of total floor space and about a fifth of sales , came in slightly below some analysts ' forecasts .
unused1 Turnover grew 11.9 per cent , or 18.2 per cent stripping out currency effects .
Excluding Japan , where Tesco made a second acquisition earlier this year , international sales were " broadly similar to the first half " .
An hour after reporting a collapse in European earnings on Wednesday , Tesco shares had lost nearly 5 per cent .
Second , with Tesco valued at 20 per cent below the long-term average at only 13 times 2014 earnings , investors were already pricing in further disappointments .
A profit warning from William Hill suggested that investors were anticipating bad news more accurately than analysts .
unused1 The bookmaker 's alert of a pound(s)20m hit to quarterly earnings , largely from unfavourable football results , lifted its stock 0.4 per cent to 413p .
Talk of potential acquisitions by Reckitt Benckiser , down 0.3 per cent to pound(s)43.90 , were given another airing .
It played down fears that emerging markets had deteriorated further , and dismissed the idea that WPP might react to the Publicis-Omnicom merger with its own mega deal .
Mr Higginson raised a cool Pounds 1m through the sale of 231,887 shares in Tesco at 464p , after the shares had bounced 7 per cent on Sir Terry 's comments that were surprisingly bullish despite dreary summer sales reported with the retailer 's first-half results this week .
Tesco starts sales fightback with new voucher campaign
Last week Tesco reported its worst domestic sales performance for decades and issued its first profit warning in 20 years , after its " Big Price Drop " failed to revive sales over the Christmas and new year trading period .
unused1 The move comes after Philip Clarke , chief executive , blamed a ferocious fightback from rival supermarkets for the 2.3 per cent decline in Tesco 's UK sales from stores open at least a year , as its big competitors bombarded customers with vouchers and coupons .
unused1 " There was a lot of promotional couponing going on around Christmas , " Mr Clarke said when the profit warning was announced last Thursday .
unused1 Last month the retailer showed it was not immune to weakening consumer confidence as it reported the first slowdown in underlying sales growth for two years .
unused1 Overall sales in the UK rose 11.6 per cent in the third quarter .
unused1 Growth in non-food sales was below the 13 per cent reported in the last quarter but still in double-digits .
However , the market , which has become used to Tesco significantly outperforming its rivals , gave a lukewarm response to the figures , which showed under-lying sales up 5.7 per cent in the seven weeks to January 7 with volumes up 7.2 per cent .
unused1 With like- for-like volumes up 7.2 per cent , to have held these gains and to have seen no switching back ( by customers ) to Sainsbury 's , we are really pleased . "
J Sainsbury showed a 5.2 per cent rise in underlying sales in the third quarter .
unused1 " On identical space , Sainsbury 's like-for-like gain will have been better than Tesco 's for the first time in a very long time , " Mr Fowler wrote .
Tesco 's total sales over the period grew 11.5 per cent against 12.1 per cent last year .
unused1 The international business , which accounts for just over one- fifth of profits , had a slowdown in sales , which rose 16.1 per cent over the period .
unused1 They rose 23.3 per cent in the previous quarter .
unused1 Full-year profit forecasts are unchanged at Pounds 2.1bn-Pounds 2.2bn.
Tesco said yesterday it was feeling the effects of the consumer slowdown in its home market as Britain 's biggest retail chain failed to match up to sales expectations .
Tesco said conditions had been more difficult over Christmas , but it enjoyed a 3.1 per cent lift in underlying sales - against expectations of 4-4.5 per cent - in the six weeks to January 5 .
unused1 He said central Europe had delivered a 30 per cent sales uplift .
unused1 Overall the international business , which now accounts for nearly a quarter of group sales and a fifth of profits , enjoyed sales growth of 26.9 per cent .
The IGD , the food research body , said yesterday that it expected Tesco 's international turnover to increase by Pounds 30bn ( Dollars 59bn ) to Pounds 74bn by 2012 .
At a press briefing to unveil Tesco 's joint venture in China , Frank Lai , finance director of China Resources Enterprise , was keen to praise his new partner .
unused1 After a pound(s)1bn investment in the UK to counteract dismal domestic trading , and deals to exit the US and partially China , the retailer is now fighting another fire in central Europe , where profits have collapsed .
After its first profit warning in 20 years in January 2012 , Tesco set out plans to overhaul the UK , and chief executive Philip Clarke said this was beginning to work .
unused1 Sales from UK stores open at least a year were flat on the year-earlier period in the three months to the end of August , compared with a 1 per cent decline in the preceding quarter .
unused1 Indeed , trading profit in central Europe slumped 70 per cent to pound(s)55m , compared with analysts ' forecasts of about pound(s)130m .
unused1 Mr Clarke revealed that sales of Tesco 's tablet , the Hudl , which went on sale on Monday , were better than forecast , helped by a higher staff discount this week .
unused1 Profit warning
Tesco shares plunged yesterday after the UK retailer issued a profit warning in the wake of disappointing Christmas trading in its UK heartland .
unused1 Mr Clarke said its growth ambitions in non-food items could be increasingly satisfied through internet sales rather than building more " big box " stores .
unused1 Sales in the six weeks to January 7 were down 2.3 per cent year-on-year in the UK on a like-for-like basis that strips out new store openings , petrol sales and value added tax .
unused1 This was weaker than the 0.9 per cent decline posted in the third quarter of its financial year , which ended in November .
Tesco said it now expected to deliver " minimal " growth in trading profit and underlying pre-tax profit in its next financial year , compared with the 10 per cent growth anticipated by the market .
unused1 Laurie McIlwee , finance director , said recently that there were signs of improvement at Fresh & Easy after the business was relaunched , with sales rising 37.4 per cent in the third quarter , and also stronger like-for-like sales .
Consequently , Tesco ex-pects the business to make a loss over the full year close to its $259m ( pound(s)160m ) deficit of last year .
Tesco has also put an expansion into northern California on hold but has continued to acquire sites in central to northern California .
Ms Neville-Rolfe also points out that Tesco , which operates in 14 countries , has international opportunities elsewhere .
She points to China , which will be a big focus for Tesco this year , and India .
" Now those wheels are back on and , if anything , Tesco is a little bit of a leaner , meaner machine , capable of going faster in terms of paying down debt and focusing on the business . "
Another issue facing Tesco is whether it can recapture its poise in the UK grocery market , which accounts for more than two-thirds of its profits and sales .
unused1 For much of 2009 it lagged behind its main rivals in terms of UK sales growth based on stores open at least a year .
In spite of the Clubcard assault , Tesco 's UK likefor-like sales in the three months to the end of November rose by 2.8 per cent , less than expectations .
Mr McIlwee says Tesco 's third-quarter sales covered a period when spiralling increases in food prices came to an end .
unused1 Andrew Kasoulis , analyst at Credit Suisse , is forecasting UK like-for-like sales growth of 3 per cent for the six weeks to January 9 , in line with J Sainsbury for the third quarter .
" If Tesco counts these as cash sales in its Christmas trading statement and treats them as it did in its third-quarter trading statement , it will artificially inflate reported sales by 1 to 2 per cent . "
Tesco has rejected any suggestion of additional Clubcard vouchers artificially inflating sales , and Ms Neville-Rolfe says that if they make an unexpected difference to sales , Tesco will make this clear .
unused1 She adds that vouchers make no difference to profit .
Tesco under pressure from talk of a cut in earnings guidance
Tesco hit a four-month low yesterday as analysts raised fears that the grocer would cut earnings guidance .
unused1 Investec Securities argued that management needed to rein in guidance so that it can keep UK profit margins stable .
With sales falling and customers moving online , Tesco 's only option to defend margins is by raising prices , Investec said .
Analysts expect Tesco 's trading update due tomorrow to show that sales growth has stalled since Christmas , with same-store sales expected to be down by about 0.5 per cent .
Heritage Oil was up 4 per cent to 147.5p after Goldman Sachs added the explorer to its " buy " list .
unused1 Fastjet , the African low-cost airline , slumped 33.5 per cent to 0.8p amid a profit warning .
unused1 Added to dividends , this would equate to returning about 60 per cent of its current market capitalisation to shareholders , it said .
unused1 It forecast the US chain to remain lossmaking until at least 2016 .
unused1 The " prospect of a decisive shift in strategy towards cash generation " led UBS to add Tesco to its " buy " list with a 370p price target .
unused1 Merrill Lynch downgraded the explorer from " buy " to " underperform " , arguing that production from its Turkmenistan projects was likely to fall short of management 's own guidance .
Credit Suisse repeated its " outperform " stance on Shire ahead of third-quarter results due next Thursday .
Equipment hire group Ashtead firmed 3.2 per cent to 356.4p after main US rival Ashtead beat forecasts with its third-quarter earnings .
Tesco yesterday called on the Bank of England to cut interest rates in spite of Britain 's biggest retailer appearing impervious to any difficulties facing the high street as it announced an improvement in sales .
unused1 However , some hint of a slowdown was evident as Mr Higginson said non-food sales were falling back a little as shoppers held back from buying more indulgent purchases beyond their weekly food shop .
unused1 Signs of a downturn have yet to show in the headline figures , with underlying UK sales excluding petrol up 4.1 per cent in the 13 weeks to November 24 - ahead of J Sainsbury and Wm Morrison 's latest figures - and group sales up 11.8 per cent .
unused1 UK sales overall were up 7.6 per cent .
unused1 International sales across its 12 Asian and European businesses rose 26 per cent .
Almost a year after Tesco revealed a surprising Pounds 155.6m acquisition attempt , the supermarket group appeared to have its green fingers on the keys of Dobbies , having fought Sir Tom , the retail and property entrepreneur , on the stock market and via the courts .
Sir Tom - who controls Wyevale , the UK 's biggest garden centre chain - had accused Dobbies ' board of " rolling over " for Tesco 's initial bid last year and subsequently attempted to frustrate the acquisition , resorting to court last week in an unsuccessful bid to block an equity issue that could have diluted his holding .
After a difficult campaign , Tesco should now succeed in consolidating its first non-food acquisition , which will continue to be run and developed separately under the Dobbies brand name .
Tesco rallied to its best level since last year 's profit warning yesterday as analysts backed the group to regain investors ' trust .
unused1 With hypermarkets making up 92 per cent of Tesco 's Korean floorspace , like-for-like sales in the country may have dropped 8 per cent this year , it said .
The jump came after Bloomberg reported that Vodafone had been in merger talks with Verizon Communications as recently as December , which had stalled over disagreements on leadership and corporate base .
Car insurer Admiral bounced 5.3 per cent to pound(s)11.34 after its annual earnings and dividend topped expectations .
unused1 A dividend hike from Legal & General also beat forecasts , lifting its stock 2 per cent to 166p .
unused1 Restrictions introduced eight years ago are designed to limit sales to a maximum of 100 tablets in a single transaction without a prescription .
unused1 Additional voluntary measures with retailers limit sales to two packs at a time .
Seven years after Vodafone last received a dividend from Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile phone operator , the UK telecoms group will get a new pay-out in 2012 .
Vodafone , which has a 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless , its joint venture with Verizon Communications , will get a $4.5bn ( pound(s)2.7bn ) pay-out from the US mobile operator in January .
Vodafone will respond by paying a pound(s)2bn special dividend to its shareholders in February .
And why did Verizon Wireless ' dividend payments stop in 2005 ?
Verizon Communications , the US telecoms group which owns 55 per cent of Verizon Wireless , has been hinting since the middle of last year that the mobile operator would once again pay dividends .
She estimated Verizon Communications ' fixed-line phone business generated little or no cash , and therefore she argued it had become a necessity for the US group to obtain dividends from Verizon Wireless .
Vodafone never wanted Verizon Wireless ' dividends to stop in 2005 , but , as the minority shareholder , it had no say over the matter .
Verizon Communications decided six years ago that the cash generated by Verizon Wireless should be used to pay down its debt .
However , many analysts saw the halt to the mobile operator 's dividend payments as an attempt to squeeze Vodafone out of Verizon Wireless .
Mr McAdam and Mr Colao are members of the Verizon Wireless board , which at a meeting on Thursday agreed the $10bn dividend payment .
Analysts highlighted how the Verizon Wireless board had only approved a one-off dividend for 2012 , but Vodafone hopes the US mobile operator 's cash distributions will become a recurring , annual event , because of Verizon Communications ' need to maintain its own pay-out to shareholders .
Vodafone is returning 70 per cent of its $4.5bn to shareholders via its special dividend , and the remainder will be used to reduce the UK group 's net debt .
If Verizon Wireless ' dividends do continue beyond 2012 , Vodafone could use some of the cash for acquisitions .
unused1 It is interested in buying rivals in some of its existing markets , including those in Europe and India .
Mr McAdam and Mr Colao have both recently played down the idea of a merger between Verizon Communications and Vodafone .
unused1 But one investor who knows the two groups said a merger was possible in the medium to long term .
unused1 Analysts at Morgan Stanley downgraded their recommendation on Vodafone 's shares from " buy " to " sell " after concluding that intervention by the European Commission could reduce core profits at Vodafone 's European mobile businesses by Pounds 900m between 2009 and 2012 .
unused1 He estimated progressive cuts between 2009 and 2012 would cut Vodafone 's European earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation by 11 per cent , or Pounds 900m .
unused1 That would equate to an 8 per cent cut in the group 's ebitda .
Meanwhile , Telkom said it had rejected an offer by Oger Telecom that would have made the Middle East group its largest shareholder .
unused1 The Anglo-Dutch company 's latest quarterly figures , due tomorrow , are expected to show a 3.6 per cent rise in underlying sales , an improvement on the2.9 per cent achieved in the first quarter .
Tate & Lyle was among the gainers , up 1 per cent to 692p , as ABN Amro said a trade deal on sweeteners between Mexico and the US was positive for the sugar group , and upped its target price from 710p to 775p .
Kazakhmys was protected from the worst of the falls in the mining sector , ending down 0.2 per cent at Pounds 12.49 , as a sharp jump in production prompted Credit Suisse to raise its price target from Pounds 13 to Pounds 15 .
unused1 The shares closed 3 per cent lower at 318.2p , its sharpest fall since a January profit warning .
Halfords jumped 14.1 per cent to 303.5p after reporting its best like-for-like sales in more than three years .
unused1 The retailer reported improved sales in all categories .
unused1 Seymour Pierce added the stock to its " buy " list following an analyst visit .
Currency printer De La Rue took on 1.9 per cent to pound(s)10.43 on the back of an upgrade from JPMorgan .
" Our financial performance fell short of where we wanted it to be , " said Stuart Chambers , chairman of Tesco 's remuneration committee , after pre-tax profit halved following a series of one-off charges .
Aggreko , the generator hire group , was up 4.1 per cent to pound(s)16.13 as Credit Suisse started coverage with a pound(s)16.40 target price .
unused1 " Our bear case scenario is in line with current consensus while our bull case suggests that 2012 consensus could be 45 per cent too low , " said the broker , though with shares having doubled inside 12 months it applied a " neutral " rating .
J Sainsbury gained 1.7 per cent to 385 1/2 p after UBS added the supermarket to its " buy " list based on expansion potential and non-food growth lifting profit margins .
unused1 UBS set a 450p target price on the stock .
unused1 Unilever , the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods group , is beefing up its Russian portfolio with the acquisition of Concern Kalina in a deal that values the beauty company 's equity at EUR500m .
Late last year PepsiCo unveiled a $5.4bn bet on the Russian food and drinks market through the acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann , the dairy and fruit juice company .
At the same time Danone of France acquired Russia 's Unimilk .
Unilever itself acquired Inmarko ice cream company in 2008 .
Concern Kalina , Russia 's biggest local personal care company by sales , is expected to generate sales of EUR303m this year .
The 9 per cent earnings growth reported by Procter & Gamble on Monday has set the context for Unilever 's second-quarter results tomorrow .
unused1 Even so , although the range of analysts ' forecasts is wide , some are expecting no more than 1.5 per cent underlying sales growth , which would represent a slowdown in momentum compared with the first quarter .
Procter & Gamble 's takeover of Gillette increases pressure on Unilever , under fire for slow growth and missed forecasts .
L'Oreal of France has been selling more skincare creams and cosmetics across the globe , helping it report a 5.5 per cent year-on-year increase in sales in the first quarter .
In China , one of the few emerging markets where P&G boasts a longer history than Unilever , L'Oreal lifted sales by 11 per cent year-on-year in its first quarter .
unused1 Sadly , yesterday 's 2 per cent increase in turnover and 0.2 per cent decline in operating margin was not satisfactory .
One quarter is too soon to declare this recovery stalled , but the continued slide in European sales ( still more than a third of Unilever 's business ) is an alarming sign of how much more he has to do .
unused1 But on Monday it agreed to spend $3.7bn on Alberto Culver , which mostly sells its shampoo and creams in the US and the UK - sluggish markets at best .
Unilever 's personal care sector is also growing fast : sales rose 16 per cent in the first half of this year , about twice as fast as ice cream and home care .
unused1 Add those to Alberto Culver 's expected $260m operating profit next year , take off tax , and earnings should rise by about $290m .
unused1 In other words , the acquisition will deliver an initial return of about 8 per cent , more or less in line with estimates for Unilever 's post-acquisition weighted average cost of capital .
Yesterday Unilever , which already owns just over half of HUL , offered Rs600 to buy up to another 23 per cent of it .
So a EUR19m gain versus Unilever 's forecast earnings of EUR5bn .
unused1 Other good news included a 5 per cent year-on-year increase in fourth-quarter like- for-like group sales .
unused1 Yet the share price has risen 19 per cent since the start of 2005 , even as consensus forecasts for 2006 earnings have fallen by 7 per cent .
unused1 The Anglo-Dutch company 's impressive 7.6 per cent first-quarter volume growth beat both US arch-rivals that also reported on Thursday - Procter & Gamble ( 7 per cent ) and Colgate-Palmolive ( 6 per cent ) .
Strikingly , however , Unilever increased its operating margin by 60 basis points ( P&G 's was up by 80bps ) , while delivering a hefty increase in advertising and promotional spending - worth 220bp of sales .
Meanwhile , the sheen dimmed a little this week on domestic rival Reckitt Benckiser , whose first-quarter figures failed , uncharacteristically , to meet expectations .
unused1 Pre-tax profits rose 16 per cent in the first half of 2006 ,
unused1 on 6 per cent sales growth .
unused1 Underlying first-half sales growth of 3.4 per cent is hardly stellar .
Peers such as Procter & Gamble , which on Wednesday said underlying second-quarter sales rose 8 per cent , managed underlying sales growth of more than 6 per cent last year .
unused1 Underlying operating margins , 14 per cent in the second quarter , were 1 percentage point lower than a year ago .
Fast-moving consumer goods companies must change their business models and develop brands that sell more cheaply , Unilever 's chief executive said as the group reported second-quarter underlying sales up 4.1 per cent .
Unilever 's shares yesterday rose 84p to pound(s)16.29 as it reported a 2 per cent rise in second-quarter sales volumes following a 1.8 per cent fall in the first quarter .
The volume increase reflects a focus on innovation under Mr Polman 's leadership , who has replaced 35 of Unilever 's top 100 executives since taking on the chief executive job at the start of the year .
unused1 Sales volumes in Europe rose 1 per cent following five quarters of declines as the company increased spending on advertising and promotions for the first time in a year .
unused1 For the first half , total sales were steady at EUR19.96bn ( pound(s)17bn ) , while pre-tax profits fell from EUR3.14bn to EUR2.29bn due to one-time disposal profits a year earlier , as well as pension financing and tax charges .
unused1 Earnings per share before restructuring costs fell from 79cents to 53 cents .
With analysts forecasting pre-tax profit of EUR5.7bn for 2009 , Unilever now is trading in line with its peers on a price / earnings ratio of 14.4 and is fairly valued .
Unilever has raised hopes of a sustained turnround in its business after the consumer goods company yesterday reported good financial results for the second consecutive quarter , with underlying sales rising 3.3 per cent due to growth in emerging markets .
unused1 The results surprised analysts , who had questioned whether the company - which has struggled to match the performance of competitors such as Procter & Gamble in recent years - could match its strong first-quarter earnings .
Analysts said Unilever produced its best quarterly performance since the fourth quarter of 2002 in spite of a second write- down in its meal replacement business , Slim-Fast .
Unilever took a Euros 353m ( Pounds 244m ) write-down in Slim-Fast after sales of its products fell 25 per cent in the first half .
The Slim-Fast write-down hurt Unilever 's operating profits , which fell 18 per cent in the quarter .
The rise in overall sales volume was driven by strong demand for Unilever 's products , including Omo laundry detergent and Pond 's cream , in Asia and Africa .
Unilever 's performance in Europe remains weak due to pricing pressure from hard discounters and competition among manufacturers , and underlying European sales fell 0.6 per cent in the second quarter .
Unilever 's first-quarter sales volumes were poor , dropping 1.8 per cent , compared with a 1.6 per cent fall in the previous quarter .
Underlying sales growth of 4.8 per cent was stronger than expected as Unilever benefited from price increases pushed through last year .
Western Europe remains a difficult market for Unilever , with sales volumes dropping 3.7 per cent in the quarter as consumers switched to cheaper own-label products .
Paul Polman , Unilever chief executive , warned of a " protracted " global economic recovery and price deflation as the maker of Lipton tea and Sunsilk shampoo reported strong third-quarter results .
Yesterday , Mr Polman proved that his changes - which include turning round underperforming brands and stepping up the pace of innovation - were making a difference at Unilever as the company beat analysts ' expectations with underlying sales growth of 3.4 per cent and volume growth of 3.6 per cent .
James Edwardes Jones , analyst at Execution , said : " Excellent third-quarter results indicate Unilever is doing what it said it would do . "
Analysts were heartened to see volume and sales growth , which was delivered in all regions , was not achieved by cutbacks in marketing spending , with Unilever increasing spending on advertising and promotions by 130bp .
Unilever investors yesterday raised concerns about the company 's ability to generate healthy profits , as the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods manufacturer reported a sharp decline in second-quarter operating margins .
unused1 The shares slid 75 pence , or 5.8 per cent , to Pounds 12.14 after the maker of Dove soap and Sunsilk shampoo surprised analysts with a 1 point drop in underlying margins to 14.6 per cent .
unused1 Julian Hardwick , analyst at ABN Amro , said : " The margin performance was very disappointing . "
Unilever 's sales are growing faster in Asia and Africa than in the Americas or Europe .
unused1 Underlying sales rose 3.9 per cent in the quarter , while revenues rose 3 per cent to Euros 10.2bn ( Pounds 7bn ) .
" One year ago we were growing at zero ; today we are growing at 3.9 per cent .
Unilever 's competitor Procter & Gamble reported much stronger earnings this week .
unused1 P&G 's organic sales growth rose 8 per cent in the second quarter , beating its own forecast of 4 to 6 per cent , while Danone produced growth of 8.9 per cent .
Unilever 's shares rose nearly 5 per cent yesterday after the company showed it was on the path to sustained growth by delivering its third consecutive quarter of profit margin improvement .
Unilever , the maker of Knorr soups and Dove shampoo , said underlying sales grew 4.5 per cent in the third quarter , and operating margins rose 0.2 percentage points to 13.7 per cent after restructuring costs .
unused1 The company attributed the healthy sales growth to a strong performance in emerg- ing markets , which account for 44 per cent of total sales .
unused1 It stressed that all product categories , with the exception of ice cream , were showing sales and profit growth .
Total sales of ice cream fell Euros 70m ( Dollars 101.3m ) in the third quarter compared with a year earlier , with Unilever blaming the decline on a cool European summer .
Analysts were impressed that Unilever had managed to increase profit margins in the face of higher commodity costs , including mineral oil , which Unilever uses in its home and personal care products .
After the sweeping unification of Royal Dutch/ Shell and the earlier successful merger of Reed Elsevier 's management structures , Unilever has only half-grasped its chance .
Its renewed commitment to the brands came as it sold its North American laundry brands for $1.45bn ( pound(s)730m ) to private equity group Vestar Capital Partners .
unused1 Growth of the brands has , however , lagged behind those in emerging markets , where sales have risen 6 to 8 per cent during the past three years .
Increased marketing investment in ice-cream , shampoos and deodorants led to higher third-quarter sales at Unilever , whose underlying revenue growth of 4.8 per cent surpassed expectations .
unused1 Analysts were happy to see an improvement on last quarter 's sales growth of 3.9 per cent .
Unilever surprised investors by announcing a one-off Euros 750m ( Pounds 502m ) dividend , which replaces a planned Euros 500m share buy-back , to be paid in December .
unused1 This quarter it reported margins of 14.8 per cent , 80 basis points lower than the same period a year earlier .
unused1 Pre-tax profits fell 19 per cent to Euros 1.1bn due to comparisons with one-off gains in the third quarter of 2005 .
unused1 Turnover rose 4 per cent at constant exchange rates to Euros 10bn , while earnings per share from continuing operations fell 47 per cent to Euros 0.25.
unused1 The group plans to undertake a Euros 1.5bn share buy-back programme in 2007 .
unused1 Nine-month pre-tax profits were Euros 3.79bn ( Euros 3.65bn ) on turnover which advanced to Euros 29.9bn ( Euros 28.6bn ) .
unused1 The company has impressed analysts with its consistent sales growth ; the next step is to deliver consistent profits growth .
Unilever , the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods group , plans to spend up to $5.4bn to buy a further slice of Hindustan Unilever , marking the latest swoop by a multinational on an Indian-listed subsidiary and the largest ever acquisition in the country 's consumer goods sector .
That is roughly in line with similar deals carried out by multinationals , most recently drugmaker GlaxoSmith-Kline which late last year lifted its 43.2 per cent stake in its pivotal Indian division , GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare , to 75 per cent .
The news came a day after HUL , India 's largest consumer goods company , announced a better-than- expected 15 per cent rise in first quarter net profit .
Unilever in EUR1.3bn deal for Sara Lee brands
Radox bubblebath and Brylcreem hair gel will join Unilever 's brand portfolio after the Anglo-Dutch multinational agreed to pay EUR1.27bn ( $1.9bn ) in cash for Sara Lee 's personal care business to strengthen its competitive position in Europe .
The acquisition , the first one made with the direct involvement of new chief executive Paul Polman , gives Unilever Sanex handwashes , shower gels and deodorants as well as the Dutch personal care brand Zwitsal and German brand Duschdas .
The Sara Lee business is worth EUR750m in sales , and has earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of EUR128m , making the value of the deal a reasonable 10 times ebitda .
Unilever is expected to make further disposals of underperforming assets following the sale of its Brazilian margarine brands and some factory machinery to Perdigao , the South American food company , for about Pounds 20m .
unused1 The performance of the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods group has been gradually improving under the stewardship of chief executive Patrick Cescau , with the company recently reporting a 5.7 per cent rise in under-lying first-quarter sales against a targeted 3-5 per cent , and a 0.4 percentage point rise in profit margins .
With sales of the local brands in decline , and Unilever holding the number three position in the margarine market , the company decided the best option for the local brands was to sell them .
Unilever is today expected to announce a four-year agreement to buy Pounds 200m worth of airtime with ITV , bucking the trend of declining advertising revenues at the broadcaster .
Shareholders in ITV have been concerned about an expected 14 per cent fall in advertising on ITV1 , its core mass-market channel , in the first quarter of the yearand are expecting guidance about whether ITV sees this as a seasonal anomaly or a pattern for the full year .
unused1 In 2004 , a weak first quarter was followed by a recovery in the second quarter .
unused1 The broadcaster is expected to deliver a strong increase in pre-tax profit for 2005 , up from Pounds 255m to Pounds 435m as favourable regulatory judgements are expected to outweigh the impact of declining advertising revenues .
unused1 Turnover is forecast to increase from Pounds 2.08bn to Pounds 2.16bn and earnings per share should rise from 5.32p to about 7.5p.
ITV Consumer , the division that manages its digital initiatives , acquired Friends Reunited late last year and is expected to give some details of how the business has been integrated , including the potential for cross-promotion between television and online .
Unilever looks to clean up in Alberto Culver buy
Unilever 's swoop on Alberto Culver was predominantly greeted with enthusiasm by analysts and investors , with most seeing it as a shrewd move into the fastest-growing sector of the consumer goods industry .
Assuming earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation for 2010 of $259m ( pound(s)163m ) and the small amount of cash held by Alberto Culver , the $3.7bn price tag will mean an enterprise value to ebitda multiple of 14 times .
unused1 It compares favourably with the most recent acquisition in personal care products , that of Reckitt Benckiser taking over SSL International , the maker of Durex condoms and Scholl footcare , in July this year for pound(s)1.5bn.
unused1 The group 's operating margins in the personal care category , which includes haircare , were 15.5 per cent last year , above the group margin of 12.6 per cent .
In the most recent quarter , Unilever 's sales of health personal care goods rose 7.8 per cent to EUR3.6bn ( pound(s)3bn ) , compared with growth of only 3.5 per cent for ice-cream and beverages , and 0.5 per cent for savoury foods , dressings and spreads .
A similar dynamic is at work at Unilever 's rival Reckitt Benckiser , the maker of Cillit Bang cleaner and Finish dishwasher powder , where health and personal care is growing at 14 per cent a year , compared with 8 per cent growth across the whole business .
The personal care business of Sara Lee , acquired last year , was equally weighted toward developed markets , with most of its sales in western Europe , comprising brands such as Radox and Brylcreem .
unused1 In the most recent quarter , underlying sales at Unilever in western Europe fell 2 per cent to EUR1.3bn.
unused1 However , in Asia , Africa and central and eastern Europe , sales rose 8 per cent , to pound(s)4.7bn.
unused1 Household goods ; Shares up 10 % after chief 's statement ; Sales poor but plans to improve volume
Unilever 's first-quarter sales levels were poor , dropping 1.8 per cent , compared to a 1.6 per cent decline in the previous quarter .
Underlying sales growth of 4.8 per cent was stronger than expected as Unilever benefited from price increases pushed through last year .
Western Europe remains a difficult market for Unilever , with sales volumes dropping 3.7 per cent in the quarter as consumers switched to cheaper own-label products , particularly in margarine .
Unilever reports 5.5 % sales rise
Unilever 's success in marketing anti-dandruff shampoo to the Russians and Chinese and slimming teas to the French helped the Anglo-Dutch conglomerate report strong full-year sales growth of 5.5 per cent yesterday , underlining its transformation into a more robust company .
unused1 Margins briefly hit the target in 2004 but have since fallen back to 13.7 per cent .
unused1 Yet this is hardly a radical departure from the recent past - disposals since 2000 have carved out Euros 8bn worth of revenues .
unused1 In spite of an improving western European economy , sales there remain sluggish .
So while Unilever expects to hit the top end of its 3-5 per cent sales growth target this year , it still lags behind peers .
Unilever sparks strong interest on talk of big dividend
Unilever was in focus yesterday amid talk the consumer goods company could soon announce plans for a large capital return .
Unilever is due to ann-ounce full-year results on February 7 and analysts believe the company may commit to a large dividend increase , a bigger share buy-back or both .
Profit taking prompted by the BoE rate decision left mortgage lender Alliance & Leicester 4 per cent lower at 724 1/2p .
unused1 Down 18 per cent on Wednesday after a dismal trading statement , its shares fell a further 3.5 per cent to 395p as analysts cut forecasts and downgraded .
unused1 Joint house broker Morgan Stanley lowered its rating to " equal- weight " from " over-weight " and said it was no longer convinced that M&S would prove more defensive than the rest of the retail sector in the current consumer downturn .
On a brighter note , J Sainsbury rallied 6.3 per cent to 388p on the back of a reassuring third-quarter trading update .
unused1 Evolution Securities downgraded to " add " from " buy " .
unused1 Securities advised clients to sell down to 60p .
Unilever suffers Europe sales fall
Unilever yesterday joined the list of consumer goods companies reporting results that disappointed investors , as the Anglo-Dutch multinational 's first-quarter sales in Europe fell .
Nestle and Diageo , respectively the world 's biggest food group and distiller , have reported earnings in recent days that fell short of investors ' expectations .
Procter & Gamble 's shares fell heavily on Wednesday after the owner of brands such as Pantene and Crest reported disappointing sales figures .
Unilever , maker of Flora margarine and Dove shampoo , had to contend with strong comparables from the year-ago period and poor spring weather across Europe , which crimped ice cream sales .
unused1 The company reported a rise in annual underlying sales growth in the first quarter of 4.9 per cent , 70 basis points below consensus market expectations .
On a reported basis , and taking into account a negative hit from foreign exchange rates , Unilever lifted turnover 0.2 per cent to EUR12.2bn.
Europe overall proved the weak spot ; underlying sales reversed 3.1 per cent as people both bought fewer Unilever goods and paid less for them .
unused1 Overall the French group reported organic sales growth of 6.1 per cent versus consensus of 7.4 per cent .
unused1 He said the Europeanbusiness , which accountsfor some 40 per cent of turnover , was making progress because its rate of decline in underlying sales has slowed from 3 per cent in 2004 to 0.5 per cent in the first quarter .
Unilever 's total underlying sales have been growing at around 3 per cent .
unused1 Unilever to buy Alberto Culver in $3.7bn deal
unused1 Unilever is to buy Alberto Culver , the US consumer products group , in a $3.7bn ( pound(s)2.3bn ) deal that will see it bring brands such as TRESemme and VO5 shampoos into the Anglo-Dutch conglomerate 's stable of hair care and skin care products .
unused1 It would be the second big takeover under his tenure , following on from the $1.9bn deal to acquire the European personal care division of Sara Lee in September last year .
unused1 The proposed price tag values the company , including its small cash pile , at about 14 times the consensus forecast for its 2010 earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of $259m .
For the 12 months ending in June , Alberto Culver made revenues of $1.6bn and earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of more than $250m .
Unilever 's European laundry brands , which include Persil , Surf and Comfort , are estimated to have just over EUR1bn ( $1.6bn ) in sales .
unused1 Growth of these brands has however lagged progress in emerging markets , where sales have risen between 6 per cent and 8 per cent over the past three years .
Unilever turnover rises 10 % despite European weakness
Unilever , the consumer goods conglomerate , continued to steal a march over rivals , lifting turnover 10.5 per cent year on year to EUR51.3bn last calendar year .
unused1 Operating profit rose 9 per cent to EUR7bn for the full year and was up 7 per cent to EUR4.9bn on a net basis .
unused1 Core operating margins were lifted 30 basis points to 13.8 per cent for the full year , which saw underlying sales growth of 6.9 per cent .
Unilever turnover rises 10.5 % despite European weakness
Unilever , the consumer goods conglomerate , continued to steal a march over rivals , lifting turnover 10.5 per cent year on year to EUR51.3bn last calendar year .
unused1 Operating profit rose 9 per cent to EUR7bn for the full year and was up 7 per cent to EUR4.9bn on a net basis .
unused1 Food volumes shrank and sales of spreads fell .
unused1 Fully diluted earnings per share were up 5 per cent at EUR1.54.
Mr Polman 's comments echo rival Procter & Gamble , which on Wednesday said it would step up efforts to make cheaper " valuefocused " products as its sales volumes dropped 4 per cent .
Unilever 's shares yesterday rose 5.4 per cent to pound(s)16.34 as it reported a 2 per cent rise in second-quarter sales volumes following a 1.8 per cent decline in the first quarter .
unused1 Underlying sales rose 4.1 per cent in the quarter .
unused1 Sales volumes in Europe rose 1 per cent following five quarters of declines as the company increased spending on advertising and promotions for the first time in a year .
unused1 Sales volumes rose 3.3 per cent in developing countries , more than double the rate of growth in either the Americas or Europe .
unused1 Total sales rose 1 per cent to EUR10.46bn ( $15bn ) .
unused1 Second-quarter pre-tax profits fell 12 per cent to EUR1.2bn due to one-time disposal profits a year earlier , as well as pension financing and tax charges .
Underlying sales growth was strongest in Unilever 's home care business during the quarter , with sales up 9.2 per cent .
unused1 Personal care sales rose 5.4 per cent ; ice cream and beverage sales were up 4.9 per cent ; and savoury , dressing and spread sales fell 0.2 per cent .
Shares in Unilever rose 2.7 per cent to pound(s)18.16 after industry data showed sales of product lines such as ice-cream and deodorant accelerating since July .
unused1 " This improvement underpins our view that volume growth will surprise on the upside , " said JPMorgan , which repeated an " overweight " rating .
It thought Cadbury 's UK sales had been sharply below company targets since July .
The company has cranked up its promotions after last month 's bid from Kraft , so a sales miss looks unlikely , JPMorgan added .
Whitbread added 1.6 per cent to pound(s)12.69 ahead of results on Tuesday , with Morgan Stanley , UBS and Deutsche Bank all advising clients to buy before the release .
unused1 An upgrade this week from BarCap also helped .
unused1 UBS said the move provided a significant sales boost , as fibre wholesale tariffs are unregulated and allow service bundling .
unused1 Piper Jaffary , which cut Autonomy to " neutral , " worried that deals might have been pulled forward to help beat forecasts and argued that hopes of a bid from Microsoft looked unlikely both on strategy and price .
Among the mid-caps , DSG International rose 1 per cent to 27p after SocGen added the retailer to its " buy " list , encouraged by the fact that most of DSG 's management was taking up a share scheme that swapped basic salary for three-year options priced at 28.4p apiece .
Strong growth in its wireless joint venture with Vodafone helped fourth-quarter results at Verizon Communications , but quarterly profits lagged behind those of a yearearlier , mainly reflecting charges related to asset sales .
Verizon , the second-largest US telecommunications group , said fourth-quarter profit had fallen to Dollars 1bn , or 35 cents per share , from Dollars 1.7bn , or 59 cents per share , a year ago .
Verizon 's fourth-quarter revenue rose 26 per cent to Dollars 22.6bn.
unused1 Net income before these and other special items was Dollars 1.81bn , or 62 cents a share , compared with Dollars 1.78bn , or 64 cents a share , includingdiscontinued operations .
The shift is intended to offset the continued decline in traditionalresidential voice services . Verizon Wireless , a joint venture between Verizon and Britain 's Vodafone Group , added 2.3m net customers in the fourth quarter , bringing its nationwide total to 59.1m and closing the gap with Cingular Wireless which ended the year with 61m subscribers .
unused1 Churn , a key measure of customer loyalty , fell to 1.14 per cent in the fourthquarter from 1.24 per cent in the previous period .
Verizon Wireless 's declaration of a $7bn dividend to be paid next month to its owners - Verizon Communications and the UK 's Vodafone - was subject yesterday to as many intricate interpretations as Elvis 's death .
unused1 It has paid out part of the Verizon Wireless dividend stream previously , but with a stock buyback already under way that looks less certain this time .
Vodafone shares added 3.4 per cent last week on news that it was in discussions about the future of its Verizon Wireless venture , which does not at present pay a dividend .
Tullow Oil rose 2.4 per cent to pound(s)13.13 following a report that Korea National Oil Company was interested in buying a stake in its Jubilee field in Ghana .
Denny Strigl , Verizon 's chief operating officer , said Verizon Wireless 's net debt stood at about Dollars 10bn .
unused1 Vodafone 's last dividend payments from Verizon Wireless were worth Dollars 923m .
Verizon Wireless 's net debt stood at Dollars 11.3bn in September 2006 , which is the most recentfiling for the joint venture sent to US regulators .
Verizon Communications has dashed the hopes of Vodafone investors by ruling out a return to a recurring dividend from the two companies ' US mobile phone joint venture , called Verizon Wireless .
Verizon Communications , Ver-izon Wireless 's controlling shareholder with a 55 per cent stake , in July authorised a long-awaited $10bn dividend payment by the mobile operator to its par-ents .
Verizon Wireless issued annual dividends to its parents from the mobile operator 's creation in 2000 until 2005 .
Verizon Communications decided to halt the dividends after 2005 because it wanted Verizon Wireless to use the cash generated by the business to reduce the mobile operator 's debt .
Verizon Communications , Ver-izon Wireless 's controlling shareholder with a 55 per cent stake , in July authorised a long-awaited $10bn ( pound(s)6.3bn ) dividend by the mobile operator to its par-ents .
Verizon Communications decided to halt the dividends after 2005 because it wanted Verizon Wireless to use the cash generated by the business to reduce the mobile operator 's debt , but many analysts saw the controlling shareholder 's move as an attempt to squeeze Vodafone out of the joint venture .
Vodafone 's shares closed up 6.2 per cent at 115p after the world 's largest mobile phone operator by revenue confirmed it would stick to its operating profit target of pound(s)11bn to pound(s)11.5bn for 2008-09 , albeit thanks to favourable exchange rate movements .
Vodafone 's revenue rose 17.1 per cent to pound(s)19.9bn in the six months to September 30 .
unused1 Ad-justed operating profit rose 10.5 per cent to pound(s)5.8bn , fuelled by sterling 's weakness against the euro and the dollar .
unused1 On an underlying basis , operating profit fell 1 per cent .
Pre-tax profit fell 27.3 per cent to pound(s)3.3bn , partly because of a pound(s)1.7bn impairment charge on Vodafone 's troubled Turkish business .
unused1 The interim dividend rose 3.2 per cent to 2.57p.
Vodafone is expected to say next week that its core profit margin will continue to fall in the current financial year , as the world 's largest mobile phone group by revenue fights fierce competition in its European markets .
Leading industry analysts said Vodafone was likely to indicate at its 2006-07 results presentation on Tuesday that the group 's margin would deteriorate further in the year to March 31 2008 .
Vodafone warned in May last year that its margin on organic adjusted earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation should decline by one percentage point in 2006-07 , continuing a trend that began in 2005-06 .
The deteriorating margin position highlighted at Vodafone 's half- year results in November 2005 put pressure on Arun Sarin , the group 's chief executive , although his relations with investors have since recovered .
unused1 In a research note , he estimated revenue of Pounds 31.2bn for 2006-07 , up 6.5 per cent , and ebitda of Pounds 12bn , up 1.8 per cent , delivering a margin of 38.3 per cent .
But Mr Delfas , who has a " buy " rating on Vodafone , calculated the margin would fall to 37.5 per cent in 2007-08 .
Mr Sinclair , who has a " hold " rating on Vodafone , estimated the margin would be 36.4 per cent in 2007-08 , partly because of spending on new customers .
Vodafone is seeking to expand into emerging markets , and last month bought Hutchison Essar , India 's fourth largest mobile operator .
Vodafone 's shares closed up 6.2 per cent at 115p after the world 's largest mobile phone operator confirmed it would stick to its operating profit target of pound(s)11bn ( $16.9bn ) to pound(s)11.5bn for 2008-09 , albeit thanks to favourable exchange rate movements .
Vodafone 's revenue rose 17.1 per cent to pound(s)19.9bn in the six months to September 30 .
unused1 Adjusted operating profit rose 10.5 per cent to pound(s)5.8bn , fuelled by sterling 's weakness .
unused1 On an underlying basis , operating profit fell 1 per cent .
Pre-tax profits fell 27.3 per cent to pound(s)3.3bn , partly because of pound(s)1.7bn impairment charge on Vodafone 's troubled Turkish business .
unused1 The interim dividend rose 3.2 per cent to 2.57p.
Vodafone 's shares closed up 6.2 per cent at 115p after the company confirmed it would stick to its operating profit target of pound(s)11bn-pound(s)11.5bn for 2008-09 , albeit thanks to favourable exchange rate movements .
Vodafone 's revenue rose 17.1 per cent to pound(s)19.9bn in the six months to September 30 .
unused1 Adjusted operating profit rose 10.5 per cent to pound(s)5.8bn , fuelled by sterling 's weakness against the euro and the dollar .
unused1 On an underlying basis , operating profit fell 1 per cent .
Pre-tax profit fell 27.3 per cent to pound(s)3.3bn , partly because of a pound(s)1.7bn impairment charge on Vodafone 's troubled Turkish business .
unused1 The interim dividend rose 3.2 per cent to 2.57p.
" Vodafone earns 55 per cent of its operating profits in euros plus around 27 per cent in US dollars , " Cazenove said , reiterating its " overweight " recommendation .
" Although underlying sales trends continue to deteriorate , Next has planned for weak demand and kept its inventory tight .
unused1 Oriel Securities repeated its " buy " rating arguing that DSG 's customer support agreements and its Nordic business , Elkjop , were worth pound(s)1.3bn.
unused1 " With the stock trading below embedded value , and with Asian sales likely to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 15-20 per cent over the next five years , we retain an overweight rating , " the broker , which has a 989p target price , said .
unused1 The weak oil price and a downgrade from RBS did the damage .
unused1 Moving to a " hold " rating , RBS said the lack of commercial success at the Chim Cng well in Vietnam and a six month gap in Premier 's drilling schedule would weigh on the share price .
RBS also cut ratings on Venture Production , off 5.8 per cent to 737 1/2 p , and Salamander Energy , down 5.2 per cent at 250p .
The record payout will be boosted by the pound(s)16.6bn special dividend from Vodafone , the study points out .
unused1 Altogether , the telecoms group is handing shareholders just over pound(s)54bn - almost three-quarters of the net proceeds from the sale of its 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless .
Good news for the UK operator came from a bumper pound(s)2.4bn dividend from US operator Verizon Wireless , in which Vodafone owns 45 per cent in a joint venture with Verizon Communications .
Vodafone 's management will use the cash to fund a pound(s)1.5bn share buy-back programme .
unused1 Cash profits attributable to Vodafone from Verizon Wireless rose 14 per cent in the period to pound(s)4.49bn - which helped adjusted group operating profit rise 2.2 per cent to pound(s)6.2bn.
unused1 Mobile data revenue climbed 4 per cent to pound(s)1.64bn in the second quarter and voice and messaging combined saw revenue slump 14 per cent to pound(s)6.87bn.
unused1 Broker Bernstein forecasts full-year adjusted earnings per share of 15.25p ( 14.91p in 2012 ) , rising to 15.79p in 2014 .
On Monday , shares in the UK mobile operator fell 2 per cent after Verizon Wireless , its US joint venture with Verizon Communications , ruled out regular dividends .
unused1 This comes after a 5 per cent jump in July , when the joint venture announced a $10bn dividend - its first since 2005 .
It is not a secret that Verizon stopped paying dividends in an effort to force Vodafone to sell its stake in the successful joint venture to Verizon .
But since then Verizon Wireless 's trapped cash has been put to good use repaying its debt and Vodafone and Verizon both have new chiefs , who have bonded better than their predecessors ( they have been bike riding together ) .
unused1 On the minus side , underlying service revenues fell 1.4 per cent year on year in the second quarter .
But Vodafone 's revenue growth also slowed from first-quarter levels in Germany , partly because of local competition , and there was a 3.2 per cent decline in the UK .
unused1 Result : the first quarterly fall in underlying service revenues since 2009-10 .
unused1 First-half earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation , at pound(s)6.6bn , also disappointed , mainly from European weakness , while the ebitda margin slipped to 30.5 per cent , compared with 31.2 per cent a year ago ( once restructuring and foreign exchange were excluded ) .
Conversely , there was a better contribution than expected from the US , where 45 per cent-owned Verizon Wireless said on Monday it would pay an $8.5bn dividend to its two parents .
The amount is slightly less than expected , but that seems to be a trade-off for an earlier payout , and Vodafone will return pound(s)1.5bn to investors via a share buyback .
unused1 The non-European interests also posted good growth , while net debt remained a reasonable 1.8 times ebitda .
unused1 The growth rate of Vodafone 's Indian revenue , which accounts for less than a 10th of its total sales , slowed to 13 per cent last year and was less than half that in the final quarter .
Vodafone 's full-year earnings yesterday were like that .
unused1 Underlying revenues from phone services were down more than 4 per cent year-on-year in the final three months to March , the weakest quarterly result to date .
So , with Vodafone looking to take pound(s)300m out of European operating expenses this year and seeing good growth in data usage , executives are projecting a 2013/14 operating profit of pound(s)12bn-pound(s)12.8bn.
unused1 But dividends are pledged to stay at current levels , giving a 5.5 per cent yield .
unused1 In its first-quarter results on Friday , the UK-based mobile operator confirmed the complete dichotomy it faces in its markets .
unused1 Revenues in Turkey increased 32 per cent and India were up by 17 per cent ( although intense competition there limits profitability ) .
unused1 On the flip side , the mature European business - which contributes about 70 per cent of revenues - barely grew as it nursed revenue falls of 10 per cent in Spain and 16 per cent in Greece .
unused1 A pound(s)4bn share buy-back programme now under way will increase that figure to 1.8 times - which would remain about 10 per cent below the company 's target .
Verizon has long looked to its successful US Verizon Wireless business to prop up its declining fixed-line earnings .
unused1 But having spent six years trying to starve out the UK operator by freezing dividend payments , it has now given up .
Vodafone 's chief executive Vittorio Colao had much pressure on him to return cash to investors , but his decision to return pound(s)2bn of the dividend to shareholders is not a cave-in .
Vodafone acquisition of C&WW opposed by Orbis
Vodafone agreed a pound(s)1bn takeover offer for Cable& Wireless Worldwide , although it could face opposition after C&WW 's largest shareholder refused to back the deal .
Vodafone , which has been considering a bid for C&WW since February , tabled a final offer at 38p per share , valuing the group 's equity at just over pound(s)1bn .
The price offered by Vodafone is almost twice that of the C&WW share price before its expression of interest , although this had dropped about three-quarters since demerger from Cable & Wireless Communications , a UK-listed overseas telecoms business .
On Tuesday , Vodafone wrote to the Bombay Stock Exchange and the India 's markets regulator to object to plans by Essar , which holds 33 per cent of Vodafone Essar , to merge 11 per cent of its stake into India Securities ( ISL ) , a small public company .
unused1 Essar , which has an option until May to sell its 33 per cent stake in the venture to Vodafone for $5bn , or sell a smaller stake at market value , said that the UK group had no power to change its plans to merge Essar 's telecoms business with ISL .
unused1 The British group has been involved in a protracted legal battle with the Indian authorities , who are pursuing Vodafone for $2.5bn in back tax related to its 2007 acquisition of Hutchison Essar for $11bn .
unused1 In 2007-08 , the business recorded a profit margin of 33 per cent based on earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation as a percentage of sales .
unused1 But by 2009-10 that margin had slipped to 26 per cent .
Verizon 's first-quarter profit beat forecasts thanks to better than expected mobile subscriber sign-ups and a sector-leading profit margin .
Verizon , which owns 55 per cent of the joint venture , currently uses the cash to pay debt and is not forecast to give Vodafone its share of a dividend before mid-2010 .
BT Group also found support after Deutsche Bank added the stock to its " buy " list .
AstraZeneca gained 3.7 per cent to pound(s)24.83 , also helped by a UBS upgrade to " buy " on valuation grounds .
Cadbury was up 2.1 per cent to 506 1/2 p after UBS raised the confectioner from " sell " to " neutral " ahead of its quarterly results on Thursday .
Northern Foods added 2.7 per cent to 58p after Citigroup added the stock to its " key buy " list .
A broker call also weighed on Premier Oil , off 5.4 per cent to pound(s)10.15 after Tristone downgraded to " market perform " .
Vodafone reported solid third-quarter sales on the back of strong performances by its UK , Indian and Turkish businesses .
unused1 The mobile phone operator said on Thursday it expected adjusted operating profit for 2010-11 to be towards the upper end of its target of pound(s)11.8bn to pound(s)12.2bn.
For the three months to December 31 , Vodafone reported group revenue of pound(s)11.9bn , up 3 per cent on the same period in 2009 .
unused1 The star performer in western Europe was the UK business , which recorded underlying sales growth of 7 per cent in the third quarter .
unused1 The European unit now includes Turkey , where a turnround has been executed with the country recording underlying revenue growth of 31.7 per cent .
unused1 Revenue at Vodafone 's emerging markets unit rose 9.3 per cent on an underlying basis in the third quarter .
unused1 The Indian business recorded sales growth of 16.7 per cent .
Although Vodafone said it would use the Pounds 1.8bn to reduce its net debt of Pounds 20.2bn , some analysts predicted the sale proceeds could help finance expansion in emerging markets such as Africa , Asia and eastern Europe .
Vodafone has been tidying up its portfolio of businesses in western Europe , where fierce competition and pressure from regulators for price cuts has resulted in slowing revenue growth and declining profit margins .
Vodafone raised its outlook for full-year operating profit on the back of a stronger performance than expected in most of its big markets , which outweighed a pound(s)450m charge in its embattled Greek operations .
Vodafone reported revenue of pound(s)23.5bn for the six months to September 30 , up 4.1 per cent from the same time last year , and underlying operating profit of pound(s)6bn , down 0.6 per cent .
unused1 Pre-tax profit fell 2.8 per cent to pound(s)8.01bn , partly because of higher financing costs and lower investment income after it sold minority stakes in Chinese and Japanese mobile operators .
Mr Colao highlighted how Vodafone had secured a pound(s)2.8bn dividend from Verizon Wireless , its first for seven years , on which it would pay a special dividend of 4p in February .
unused1 The interim dividend is set at 3.05p , up 7 per cent on last year .
unused1 Vodafone , the world 's biggest mobile phone company , yesterday agreed to buy a 70 per cent stake in Ghana Telecom for $900m , gaining a controlling stake in Africa 's eighth largest mobile network .
Ghana Telecom posted 2007 earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortisation of $42m on sales of $290m , Vodafone said .
Ghana Telecom reported revenue growth of 9.3 per cent in the 12 months ended December 31 last year to $290m and earnings of $42m .
Sir John said of Verizon Wireless at the annual meeting : " The prospect for dividends is now very good , with Verizon 's management confirming a pay-out in 2012 . "
Some investors have become increasingly critical of Mr Sarin since Vodafone warned last November of slowing revenue growth and reduced profit margins .
unused1 In May it announced a record pre-tax loss for its 2006 fiscal year of Pounds 14.9bn.
But shareholders were alarmed by how Vodafone 's European businesses , which contribute more than 70 per cent of group sales , for the first time reported falling underlying revenue in 2008-2009 .
Vodafone had been hoping for a resumption of dividends in 2009 after Verizon Wireless paid down its debt , but the timetable was pushed back to 2012 by the acquisition of Alltel , a smaller US mobile operator .
On-off talks between Verizon Communications and Vodafone about the future of Verizon Wireless may finally be entering an end game , however , because the mobile operator is expected to be debt-free by the end of next year .
unused1 Vodafone has been urging its shareholders to be patient , even though some have long been unhappy about the lack of Verizon Wireless ' dividends .
Verizon Communications paid a dividend worth $5.3bn in 2009 and Bernstein analysts said that problems at the US group 's fixed-line phone business meant that it will need to tap Verizon Wireless ' cash so as to maintain its shareholder remuneration .
Vodafone confirms talks with C&WW
Shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide jumped almost 45 per cent after Vodafone confirmed that it was interested in bidding for the troubled telecoms group .
Vodafone 's interest surprised the market given the troubled financial position of C&W Worldwide , which had been struck by three profit warnings in 12 months after the corporate-focused business was demerged from the consumer side of the Cable & Wireless group in March 2010 .
Vodafone , the world 's biggest mobile phone operator , caused jitters among investors yesterday when it lowered its guidance for margins and revenue growth for the current year amid warnings of intensifying competition .
unused1 It expects revenue growth of 6-9 per cent , down from " high single digits " , and said margins would be flat or down 1 percentage point from 38.5 per cent , rather than its earlier guidance of " broadly stable " margins .
unused1 The group has signed up 2.1m customers using 3G phones and 300,000 data card users since rolling out the latest generation of mobile technology across 13 markets last November .
Vodafone added 16.3m net customers in the year to March across 26 markets , giving it a customer base of 154.8m.
Vodafone confirmed plans to increase returns to shareholders with a Pounds 4.5bn share buyback programme , up from Pounds 4bn last year , and a doubling of the dividend from 2.03p to 4.07p.
unused1 Ken Hydon , finance director , said the group 's Pounds 8.3bn net debt load left it with " plenty of headroom " to return further cash to shareholders and finance more acquisitions .
unused1 The company reported turnover up 1.4 per cent to Pounds 34.1bn in the year to March .
unused1 Earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation rose to Pounds 10.9bn from Pounds 10.7bn.
unused1 Group pre- tax losses narrowed to Pounds 4.7bn from Pounds 5bn , dragged down by Pounds 14.7bn in goodwill write-downs .
Publishing figures for the three months to June 30 , Vodafone said it generated revenue of Pounds 8.3bn , up 4 per cent on an organic basis .
Downgrading to " underperform " and setting a 540p target price , analyst George Gregory said Wolseley could breach its banking covenants if the US housing market took another downward lurch .
unused1 We also believe that the property backing argument should be discounted to reflect falling commercial values , " Investec Securities said , lowering its price target to 115p .
UK Coal climbed 6.2 per cent to 445 1/4p after Numis Securities started coverage with a " buy " recommendation and a bullish target price of 661p .
Vodafone eyes EUR7bn German deal
unused1 Vodafone returned to the European acquisition trail with an approach for Kabel Deutschland , Germany 's largest cable operator , to strike a deal potentially worth more than EUR7bn .
An acquisition of Kabel Deutschland ( KDG ) would be the third-largest UK-led telecoms deal on record , although dwarfed by Vodafone 's last foray into the German market with the controversial $183bn acquisition of Mannesmann in 1999 .
unused1 mobile & telecoms ; Group prepared for European action ; Pre-tax profit rises 9.5 % to pound(s)9.5bn
Vodafone reported revenue of pound(s)45.9bn for the year to March 31 , up 3.2 per cent on the previous year , as some of its fast-growing businesses in emerging markets offset weakness in southern Europe .
Operating profit excluding one-off items rose 3.1 per cent to pound(s)11.8bn , notably because of a strong performance by Verizon Wireless , the US mobile operator in which Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake .
Verizon should benefit from AT&T 's proposed acquisition of T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom , because consolidation provides the remaining operators with greater pricing power .
unused1 Pre-tax profit increased 9.5 per cent to pound(s)9.5bn and the total dividend rose 7.1 per cent to 8.9p after a final of 6.05p ( 5.65p ) .
unused1 Earnings per share were 15.2p , down 7.6 per cent .
Vodafone is interested in more deals in emerging markets , the UK mobile phone group said yesterday as it reported a4 per cent increase in operating profit in 2006-07 .
The group 's shares closed up 5.5 per cent at 159.7p , their highest level since January 2002 , after Vodafone said operating profit would be potentially flat in 2007-08 .
unused1 But people close to AT&T dismissed market rumours that the US company was planning a bid for the UK group .
Vodafone completed its third largest transaction earlier this month after paying Dollars 10.9bn ( Pounds 5.5bn ) for control of Hutchison Essar , the Indian mobileoperator .
With net debt at Pounds 24.1bn on a pro forma basis following the Hutchison Essar transaction , Vodafone is willing to see its A- credit rating go to BBB+ temporarily if it identifies an appropriate target in emerging markets .
Vodafone reported revenue of Pounds 31.1bn for 2006-07 , up 4.3 per cent on an organic basis , and adjusted operating profit of Pounds 9.5bn , up 4.2 per cent .
unused1 It recorded a pre-tax loss of Pounds 2.4bn , partly because of Pounds 11.6bn of impairment charges that reflected fierce competition and regulatory pressure in some of its core European markets .
unused1 The full year dividend was 6.76p , up 11.4 per cent .
Investors welcomed how Vodafone will over the next two years raise its dividend above a payout target of 60 per cent of adjusted earnings per share .
Mr Sarin 's upbeat remarks about potential acquisition activity came as Vodafone reported a pre-tax loss of Pounds 3.3bn for the six months to September 30 , compared with a Pounds 3.9bn profit for the same period last year .
Vodafone had earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of Pounds 6.2bn for the six months of its 2006-07 fiscal year , up 3 per cent on an organic basis .
unused1 Revenue was Pounds 15.6bn , up 4 per cent on an organic basis , and free cash flow was Pounds 3bn , down 9 per cent .
unused1 The interim dividend was 2.35p , up 7 per cent .
Vodafone reiterated its May guidance of slowing revenue growth and a declining profit margin in 2006-07 compared with 2005-06 .
In the first half of 2006-07 , strong revenue growth in Vodafone 's businesses in emerging markets helped offset falling sales in some of its core European operations .
unused1 Businesses in eastern Europe , the Middle East , Africa , and Asia reported revenue of Pounds 3.1bn for 2006-07 , up 21 per cent on an organic basis .
The world 's largest mobile operator by revenue said in October it planned to acquire an additional 15 per cent stake in Vodacom , its 50-50 joint venture with South Africa 's state-controlled Telkom .
Vodacom 's subscribers across five African countries last year generated revenues of R48.2bn ( $5.4bn ) .
unused1 Fierce competition takes toll in India ; First-half pre-tax profits jump 73 %
Vodafone warned of a sharper-than-expected reduction in its profit margin in 2009-10 , as the world 's largest mobile phone operator by revenue said that fierce competition in India was taking its toll .
Shares in Vodafone closed down 2p at 135.95p after it reported revenue of pound(s)21.8bn for the six months to September 30 , an increase of 9 per cent compared with the same period last year , and pre-tax profit up 73 per cent to pound(s)5.75bn.
unused1 Underlying revenue fell 3 per cent and earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation dropped 8 per cent .
Vodafone said in May that its ebitda margin should decline by 1.8 percentage points in 2009-10 , but yesterday it said the deterioration was now expected to be 2.1 percentage points .
Vodafone stuck to its guidance that it will generate pound(s)11bn to pound(s)11.8bn of operating profit in 2009-10 after saying that depreciation and amortisation charges would be lower than expected .
unused1 The interim dividend rises from 2.57p to 2.66p ; earnings per share were 9.14p ( 4.02p ) .
Vodafone falls 14 % on sales warning
Vodafone 's shares fell almost 14 per cent yesterday , the biggest one-day fall in the company 's history , after the UK mobile phone operator shocked investors by issuing a sales warning .
Vodafone has scaled back its revenue forecast for 2008-09 to pound(s)39.8bn after admitting the economic downturn was hurting its mobile businesses in Spain and the UK .
The market was spooked by Vodafone downgrading its revenue guidance just eight weeks after issuing the forecast with its 2007-08 results .
After its first quarter trading update for 2008-09 , Vodafone 's shares closed down 13.6 per cent at 129p .
Andy Halford , Vodafone 's chief financial officer , signalled the company would look at the case for a new share buyback .
unused1 However , Mark James , analyst at Collins Stewart , downgraded his recommendation on Vodafone 's stock from " buy " to " hold " yesterday .
Vodafone reported revenue of pound(s)9.8bn for the first quarter of 2008-09 , up 1.7 per cent on an organic basis compared to the same period in 2007-08 .
unused1 mobile & telecoms ; Underlying revenue sees decline ; Challenge to new India tax demands
Vodafone has warned that there was no sign of improvement in recession-hit European markets after posting the first decline in underlying group revenues for three years .
unused1 The growth in data usage failed to plug the gap left by declining voice and text revenues , with customers demanding lower-priced phone packages in a fiercely competitive European market .
Revenues in southern Europe tumbled by almost a fifth year on year as trading in Vodafone 's business in Spain and Italy showed no signs of improving .
unused1 The growth in emerging market revenues slowed in the third quarter , which contributed to an overall group service revenue decline of 2.6 per cent , weaker than expected by analysts .
unused1 This equated to a fall of 0.4 per cent in underlying service revenues excluding mobile termination rate cuts - the fees that telecoms groups charge rivals for handling calls from their networks , which have been forced down by regulation .
unused1 This was the first time that revenue excluding MTRs declined since the third quarter of 2009 .
unused1 Group data revenue rose 12.8 per cent on the back of an increase in European smartphone usage to 33.4 per cent of its customers .
Verizon Wireless last issued dividends in 2005 , when Vodafone received Pounds 923m .
The payments dried up after Verizon Communications decided to use Verizon Wireless ' cash flow to pay down the mobile operator 's debt .
unused1 Verizon Wireless ' debt stood at about Dollars 10bn before it announced plans last July to buy Rural Cellular , a smaller US mobile operator , in a Dollars 2.7bn deal .
Vodafone , of the UK , and Hutchison Whampoa , of Hong Kong , yesterday announced plans to merge their Australian mobile phone operations , in a move that should enable the combined business to better compete with local rivals .
Vodafone blamed a poor performance by its Australian business for a 25 per cent fall in operating profit at its Pacific operations in the six months to September 30 .
unused1 The 3G businesses reported a loss before interest and tax of HK$3.2bn in the first half of 2008 , although that was a 72 per cent improvement on the same period in 2007 .
unused1 The Australian business reported earnings before interest and tax of A$1.3m in the first half of 2008 .
unused1 * Subscriber figures for first quarter grow by 35 %
unused1 The comments came as the company reported subscriber growth figures for the first quarter to the end of June .
Vodafone beat market expectations by adding 4.1m net subscribers in the quarter through organic growth , a rise of 35 per cent .
unused1 Mr Sarin said this equated to revenue growth of 8.6 per cent , towards the top end of its guidance given this year , and the group reiterated its guidance for the year .
unused1 It forecast management to rebase its 2014 dividend to 6p a share , a cut of 41 per cent .
unused1 However , it cut Vodafone from its " buy " list , sending its shares down 1.5 per cent to a three-month low of 174p .
BAESystems led the blue-chip risers , up 10.6 per cent to 363.6p , on news that it was in advanced negotiations over a possible merger with EADS .
unused1 The B&Q owner missed profit expectations by about 7 per cent , largely due to underperformance in the UK , which it blamed on poor weather .
Barratt Developments slid 6.4 per cent to 158.8p after the housebuilder declared no dividend for 2012 , against market forecasts for a 2p payout .
Engineer Invensys slipped 1.3 per cent to 246p after Merrill Lynch downgraded from " buy " to " neutral " .
Vodafone showed its biggest rally in nearly two months as analysts played down fears of a dividend cut .
Vodafone 's 7.6 per cent dividend yield is the biggest among London 's blue-chips and accounts for more than 3 per cent of the index total .
As a result , Barclays raised its target to 200p for Vodafone , which added 2 per cent to 178.5p.
unused1 Exane BNP Paribas upgraded Pearson to " outperform " based on an improving outlook for next year for textbook sales .
Although he declined to comment on Vodafone 's interest in buying T-Mobile UK , Mr Colao was " positive " about consolidation because it should enable mobile operators to secure cost savings .
Vodafone 's weakness in the UK mobile market was highlighted yesterday in the company 's first-quarter trading update .
Although Vodafone 's group revenue performance slightly exceeded expectations , underlying sales in Europe fell 4.4 per cent in the three months to June 30 compared with the same period last year .
unused1 In the UK , underlying sales fell 4.7 per cent .
Vodafone reported group revenue of pound(s)10.7bn for the first quarter , up 9.3 per cent , largely because of sterling 's weakness against the euro .
unused1 On an underlying basis , group revenue fell 2.1 per cent , partly because customers are spending less in the recession .
unused1 The group stuck by its previous guidance of generating pound(s)11bn-pound(s)11.8bn of operating profit in 2009-10 , which would at best be a flat performance on 2008-09 .
Vodafone won the auction for Turkey 's second largest mobile phone operator yesterday , saying the Dollars 4.55bn ( Pounds 2.57bn ) deal would dilute its earnings for up to five years but raise its longer- term growth profile .
Telsim had revenues of just Dollars 712m in 2004 and earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of Dollars 87m , but Vodafone said the acquisition price would equate to less than five times ebitda within five years .
unused1 Vivendi seals 100 % ownership in operator ; UK group to pay debt and buy back shares
Vivendi has struck a deal with Vodafone to pay EUR7.95bn ( pound(s)7.02bn ) for the 44 per cent of SFR , France 's second-largest mobile phone company , it does not already own .
Vodafone said pound(s)4bn of the deal proceeds would be returned to shareholders via a share buy-back , with the remainder used to pay down debt .
unused1 Group to offload 3.2 % stake in China Mobile ; Proceeds to fund share buy-back and cut debt
unused1 The company said on Tuesday that 70 per cent of the proceeds from the sale would be returned to shareholders in the form of a share buy-back , with the remainder used to reduce the UK group 's net debt , which stands at pound(s)33.3bn.
Mr Colao is pressing for a restoration of dividend payments and is also open to selling the Verizon Wireless stake , which Citi analysts value at pound(s)33bn .
unused1 Telecom Egypt , the country 's leading fixed-line phone company , has approached Vodafone about buying the UK group 's 55 per cent stake in Vodafone Egypt .
Robin Bienenstock , analyst at Bernstein , said Vodafone could expect to receive about pound(s)3bn for its controlling stake in Vodafone Egypt .
Vodafone Egypt 's revenue growth has slowed markedly in the past two years because of a combination of the economic slowdown and rising mobile phone ownership in Egypt .
unused1 The margin at the level of earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation was 50 per cent in 2009-2010 .
Vodafone this month made its maiden wireless internet deal by agreeing to pay Pounds 25m for Zyb , a Danish social networking company .
At the company 's interim results in November , Vodafone said it had generated Pounds 1bn of revenue from customers using mobiles for data functions such as web surfing .
unused1 Last October Nokia announced its largest-ever deal by agreeing to buy Navteq , a US mapping and navigation company , for Dollars 8.1bn ( Pounds 4.1bn ) .
unused1 But last October Vodafone agreed to buy the Italian and Spanish fixed-line broadband units of Tele2 , the Swedish telecoms company , for Euros 775m .
unused1 At its annual results for 2007-08 tomorrow , analysts expect Vodafone to report revenue of Pounds 35.2bn to Pounds 35.4bn , adjusted operating profit of Pounds 9.9bn to Pounds 10bn and free cash flow of Pounds 5bn .
The charges are called mobile termination rates , and Morgan Stanley analysts , who have a " sell " rating on Vodafone , estimate they represent 20 per cent of the company 's European free cash flow .
During the 1990s he was president of AirTouch Communications , the US mobile operator that subsequently merged with Vodafone .
Vodafone 's board last night gave the go-ahead for an offer to be made for Hutchison Essar , India 's fourth largest mobile phone operator .
Some of Vodafone 's investors became angry after the group warned in November of slowing revenue growth .
Some investors thought the group overpaid for Telsim , Turkey 's second largest mobile operator , which was bought for Dollars 4.6bn.
The company would be keen to avoid a repeat of its ill-fated attempt to buy AT&T Wireless in 2004 .
unused1 " Disposals would crystalise value , reduce indebtedness and highlight management 's willingness to actively manage the portfolio , " said Merrill , which repeated " buy " advice .
unused1 Credit Suisse upgraded both stocks to " outperform " on valuation grounds .
unused1 It moved to a " buy " rating and 310p target .
Burberry led the blue-chip risers , up 7.6 per cent to 659p on better than forecast full-year earnings and a confident outlook .
Elsewhere among the mid-caps , Afren jumped 13.5 per cent to 89 3/4 p after Renaissance Capital started coverage of the Africafocused oil explorer with a " buy " rating and 135p price target .
Engineer IMI was 8 per cent higher at 624 1/2 p on the back of a UBS upgrade to " buy " with a 720p share price target .
Vodafone yesterday underlined its confidence by raising its guidance on operating profit for 2007-08 , as it claimed that revenue from people using mobile phones for web surfing was finally starting to take off .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , hailed how Vodafone had seen a 45 per cent increase in revenue from mobile data functions such as downloading music .
unused1 Revenue for the six months to September 30 was Pounds 17bn , up 4.4 per cent on an underlying basis compared with the same period last year , and adjusted operating profit was Pounds 5.2bn , up 6.1 per cent .
Vodafone recorded a pre-tax profit of Pounds 4.6bn , compared with a loss of Pounds 3.3bn in the first half of 2006-07 .
unused1 The group raised its guidance on adjusted operating profit for 2007-08 from between Pounds 9.3bn and Pounds 9.8bn to between Pounds 9.5bn and Pounds 9.9bn.
Mr Sarin highlighted how Vodafone Essar , the Indian mobile business bought for Pounds 5.5bn in May , was delivering revenue growth of 53 per cent and signing up 1.6m new customers each month .
Vodafone 's businesses in emerging markets currently contribute about 25 per cent of the group 's revenue , but recorded growth of 16 per cent on an underlying basis in the first half .
In Europe , where 75 per cent of revenue is generated , revenue growth was 2 per cent , reflecting how Vodafone is cutting prices to stay competitive .
unused1 Data revenue was Pounds 965m in the first half , up 45 per cent on an underlying basis .
Vodafone announced an interim dividend of 2.49p , up 6 per cent .
unused1 Earnings per share were 6.22p ( loss per share of 8.02p ) .
Vodafone misses Footsie gains after analysts cut earnings expectations
unused1 Credit Suisse , Nomura and Exane BNP Paribas all trimmed earnings forecasts by about 3 per cent to reflect competition in Europe .
Profit warnings from KPN and Belgacom have pointed to smartphones cannibalising voice usage , suggesting consensus expectations for Vodafone 's margins still need to fall , Nomura said .
Vodafone ended weaker by 0.3 per cent to 169 1/2 p even as all three brokers kept " buy " advice .
unused1 Schroders ' voting shares rose 5.6 per cent to pound(s)17.50 after Numis Securities added the fund manager to its " buy " list .
unused1 Quarterly results last week were disappointing but the stock had fallen to 13 times forward earnings , compared with a historical average of 15.5 times , analyst David McCann said .
Sage Group rose 3.6 per cent to 296p on talk that the accounting software maker was a takeover target for Oracle or SAP .
Premier Foods led the mid-cap gainers , up 6.4 per cent to 38 3/4 p , after Citigroup turned positive with a 40p price target .
unused1 A debt restructuring last October cleaned up the company structure but left investors nonplussed , it said , and added : " We believe that as performance stabilises , the market will be increasingly willing to ascribe a ' sensible ' valuation to the stock . "
JJB Sports rallied 5.3 per cent to 29 1/2 p after Panmure Gordon set a 40p price target on recovery hopes ahead of the Olympics .
unused1 The shares were one of only three blue-chip fallers as Credit Suisse , Nomura and Exane BNP Paribas trimmed earnings forecasts by about 3 per cent to reflect competition in Europe .
Profit warnings from KPN and Belgacom pointed to smartphones cannibalising voice usage .
unused1 It ended 0.3 per cent down to 169 1/2 p even as all three brokers kept " buy " advice .
Schroders ' voting shares rose 5.6 per cent to pound(s)17.50 after Numis Securities added the fund manager to its " buy " list .
unused1 Quarterly results were disappointing but the stock had fallen to 13 times forward earnings , analyst David McCann said .
Sage Group rose 3.6 per cent to 296p on gossip that the accounting software maker was a takeover target for Oracle or SAP .
Premier Foods led the mid-cap gainers , up 6.4 per cent to 38 3/4 p , after Citigroup turned positive with a 40p price target .
unused1 The mobile phone company has been forced to reduce earnings forecasts twice since November and analysts are worried that guidance will be cut again when full-year results are announced next Tuesday along with an eagerly-awaited strategic review .
To stabilise market share loss , Vodafone may need to sacrifice margin , " said Merrill Lynch after reducing its 2006-07 earnings per share forecast by 4-5 per cent .
Hammerson rose 7 per cent to Pounds 11.23 , Liberty International gained 7 per cent to Pounds 10.42 and Land Securities moved up 5.6 per cent to Pounds 17.80 as Alec Pelmore , Merrill Lynch 's top-rated property analyst , upgraded .
unused1 Analysts said they were concerned by news of a smaller-than-expected 5 per cent sales uplift at refurbished stores .
Vittorio Colao yesterday reassured investors that the revenue decline at Vodafone 's European businesses was slowing .
Vodafone yesterday said that while its European businesses continued to report falling underlying sales , they were collectively edging closer to growth .
unused1 European revenue fell 3.2 per cent in the three months to December 31 compared with the same period in 2008 .
unused1 It fell by 4.6 per cent in the second quarter .
unused1 Group revenue rose 10.3 per cent to pound(s)11.5bn in the third quarter compared with the same time in 2008 , driven by favourable exchange rate movements and acquisitions .
unused1 Turkey , which has been reporting falling sales since mid-2008 , returned to growth in the third quarter .
Vodafone outperformed a falling London market yesterday on a revival of speculation that it might be a takeover target for Verizon , its US partner .
Morgan Stanley repeated an " overweight " rating and 210p price target on Vodafone shares , which closed up 2.1 per cent at 170 3/4 p.
unused1 Separately , Goldman Sachs added Vodafone to its " conviction buy " list in a note distributed overnight .
unused1 C&W Worldwide rallied 8.9 per cent to 38p on a report that Tata Communications was to make a formal cash offer for the group .
Exillon Energy fell a further 8.1 per cent to 188 1/2 p as analyst downgrades followed Monday 's weaker- than-expected results and production delay from the Russian oil explorer .
Gem Diamonds gained 6.9 per cent to 300 1/2 p after its full-year earnings beat forecasts , thanks largely to lower costs .
Vodafone pays NZ$840m for rival Telstra business
Vodafone will more than double the size of its fixed-line telecoms business in New Zealand after buying rival TelstraClear for NZ$840m in cash from Australia 's Telstra Corp.
Vodafone is considering joining the bidding for Tiscali as the Italian telecoms group set a deadline of May 5 for initial non-binding offers .
A person familiar with the situation said Vodafone was considering bidding for both the whole group or just its UK assets .
Vodafone already has interests in Italy , having agreed last October to buy the Italian broadband business owned by Tele2 , the country 's fifth-largest internet access provider .
Investors are happier with Mr Colao in part because of the prospect of a dividend from Verizon Wireless , the US mobile operator that Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake in .
Verizon Communications , the controlling shareholder in Verizon Wireless , has been blocking pay-outs since 2005 , in an apparent attempt to squeeze Vodafone out , but said in June that dividends might restart in 2012 .
Vodafone is therefore getting a revenue fillip as its customers increasingly switch to smartphones , but the challenge is whether this one-off boost can be turned into long term growth .
Vodafone prepares fresh round of cost cutting as revenues fall
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , is preparing a fresh round of cost cutting as he tries to offset falling revenue at the mobile phone operator .
Vodafone 's shares have underperformed the FTSE 100 by 16 per cent this year , partly because of concern at how the UK company 's underlying revenue at most of its core European businesses is falling .
unused1 The Citi analysts are expecting Vodafone to report pound(s)21.6bn of revenue for the six months to September 30 , up 8.3 per cent on the same period last year , and pound(s)7.5bn of earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation , up 2.8 per cent .
Some of Vodafone 's main European businesses , such as those in the UK and Spain , are expected to report declining revenue , because consumers are spending less on their mobile phones during the recession .
Analysts at Bernstein say one possible piece of good news is the potential for an earlier than expected resumption of dividend payments by Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator .
Verizon Wireless stopped issuing dividends in 2005 , after Verizon Communications decided to use Verizon Wireless 's cash flow to pay down the mobile operator 's debt .
When Verizon Wireless last year agreed to buy Alltel , a smaller rival , Vodafone said it did not expect a resumption of dividend payments until 2012 .
Vodafone raises profit guidance
Vodafone yesterday underlined its confidence by raising its guidance on operating profit for 2007-08 , as it claimed that revenue from people using mobile phones for web surfing was finally starting to take off .
unused1 Arun Sarin , chief executive , hailed how the UK group had seen a 45 per cent increase in revenue from mobile data functions such as downloading music .
unused1 Revenue for the six months to September 30 was Pounds 17bn ( Dollars 35bn ) , up 4.4 per cent on an underlying basis compared with the same period last year , and adjusted operating profit of Pounds 5.2bn , up 6.1 per cent .
Vodafone recorded a pre-tax profit of Pounds 4.6bn , compared with a loss of Pounds 3.3bn in the first half of 2006-07 .
unused1 The group raised its guidance on adjusted operating profit for 2007-08 from between Pounds 9.3bn and Pounds 9.8bn to between Pounds 9.5bn and Pounds 9.9bn.
Mr Sarin highlighted how Vodafone Essar , the Indian mobile business bought for Pounds 5.5bn in May , was delivering revenue growth of 53 per cent , and signing up 1.6m new customers each month .
Vodafone raises profit outlook
Vodafone raised its outlook for full-year operating profit on the back of a stronger-than-expected performance in most of its largest -markets that more than countered a pound(s)450m ( $724m ) charge in its ailing Greek operations .
Vodafone 's sales and operating profit were ahead of analysts ' expectations .
unused1 It reported pound(s)23.5bn of revenue for the half to September 30 , up 4.1 per cent
unused1 Vodafone tried to reassure investors yesterday that it would benefit from plans for a merger between the UK mobile phone businesses of France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom .
Once the market leader in the UK , Vodafone faces becoming the third largest British mobile operator if the merger between France Telecom 's Orange UK and Deutsche Telekom 's T-Mobile UK is approved by competition authorities .
Mr Colao highlighted the Netherlands , where the number of network operators reduced from four to three in 2007 when Deutsche Telekom bought France Telecom 's Dutch business .
Vodafone is changing top managers ' remuneration as it seeks to halt the decline in its profit margin at the level of earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation .
unused1 In 2010-11 , the ebitda margin fell by 1.1 percentage points to 32 per cent .
Fourth-quarter results for 2010-11 showed solid revenue performances at Vodafone 's UK and German businesses .
unused1 The broker kept a 170p target price , citing market research suggesting there had been no significant change in spending in the company 's key European markets .
Food and drink companies fell after Coca-Cola Hellenic warned on profits due to the tighter economy and inclement weather in Russia .
UBS this week put a " short-term sell " recommendation on SAB ahead of its trading update due on October 14 , arguing that sales in key markets such as South Africa and Colombia are likely to disappoint .
Marks and Spencer bounced 8.1 per cent to 227 1/4 p after reporting second-quarter sales broadly in line with expectations .
Logica slid 5 per cent to 100 3/4 p after Petercam set an 82p target on the IT services group , which set out a restructuring plan in April .
In its latest set of accounts filed at Companies House , for the 2004 financial year , 3 UK reported pre-tax losses of Pounds 1.5bn.
People familiar with 3UK , which is owned by Hutchison Whampoa , said it expected revenues of Pounds 100m from data services excluding text messaging in 2006 .
In August , 3 said it had 3.75m UK customers and reported revenues of Pounds 700m for the first six months of 2006 .
Vodafone reveals plan for pound(s)1bn share buy-back
Vodafone has taken the unusual step of revealing a pound(s)1bn share buy-back in immediate response to the record sell-off of its stock after Tuesday 's revenue warning .
Announcing the pound(s)1bn share buy-back yesterday , the company said : " This action reflects the board 's belief that the share price significantly undervalues Vodafone . "
Graham Secker , equity strategist at Morgan Stanley , said Vodafone 's share buyback , while unusual , may be well timed .
Vodafone scaled back its revenue forecast for 2008-09 at its first-quarter trading update , partly because some people were delaying upgrades of mobile phones .
On March 31 , Vodafone had net debt of pound(s)25.2bn.
Standard & Poor 's , the ratings agency , said Vodafone 's ratings were unchanged by the buy-back , but added : " A weakening of operating performance . . . or any future revision of guidance for 2009 , could put pressure on the ratings and outlook . "
Vodafone issues a first-quarter trading update on Friday , and analysts will be looking for signs that the mobile phone operator is on course to resume revenue growth , writes Andrew Parker .
unused1 The company said in May that it expected to return to " low levels " of organic revenue growth in 2010-11 , although it stressed it would be dependent on the economic environment , including employment levels .
unused1 Citigroup analysts expect Vodafone to report a 0.2 per cent underlying decline in service revenue paid by mobile phone users for the three months to June 30 compared with the same period last year .
unused1 The Citi analysts estimate Vodafone will report pound(s)11.1bn of revenue for its first quarter , up 3 per cent on the same period last year , partly due to favourable exchange rate movements .
Following a jump in its share price , the world 's largest mobile phone group told the market it was in talks to sell a " controlling interest " in Vodafone Japan to Tokyo-based SoftBank .
Australian investment fund Babcock & Brown has shown an interest in buying Eircom , the former Irish telecoms monopoly .
Stocks were unsettled by an initial fall on Wall Street after chipmaker Intel cut revenue forecasts .
unused1 Online gambling group PartyGaming gained 5.3 per cent to 129p after Deutsche Bank raised is price target on the stock from 170p to 185p citing strong trading , lower costs and expansion into new countries .
unused1 Deutsche Bank cut its price target on the stock from 285p to 235p .
While announcing annual results that may show a record pre-tax loss , Vodafone is expected to reassure investors that it is not looking to revive slowing revenue growth by buying more mobile operators in emerging markets .
Vodafone was built into the world 's biggest mobile phone operator by revenue by a series of large deals such as the Pounds 101bn acquisition of Germany 's Mannesman in 2000 .
Vodafone had already rattled investors in November by warning that revenue growthwould be lower in 2007 than in 2006 .
Vodafone 's annual results for 2006 may show it reporting a bigger pre-tax loss than the Pounds 13.5bn recorded in 2002 because of a write-down in the value of its assets .
Vittorio Colao this month supervised the sale of Vodafone 's 3.2 per cent stake in China Mobile for pound(s)4.3bn , and said most of the proceeds would be returned to investors in the form of a share buy-back .
Verizon Communications has blocked dividend payments by Verizon Wireless since 2005 , in a move widely seen as an attempt to squeeze Vodafone out .
However , Verizon Wireless ' debt should be paid off next year , which could enable a restoration of dividend payments in 2012 .
Shares in the mobile phone operator closed 3.7 per cent higher at 149.9p - the biggest riser in the FTSE 100 - on rumours that it could be a takeover target for AT&T .
On a less speculative tack , Rexam , the world 's biggest maker of drinks cans , added 2.9 per cent to 535p as short sellers closed positions after ABN Amro upgraded to " buy " .
Elsewhere , Hammerson added 1.3 per cent to Pounds 16 on talk it could be a takeover target for British Land , up 2.1 per cent to Pounds 14.56 , while Compass Group improved 1.1 per cent to 381 3/4p after Citigroup reiterated its " buy " recommendation .
Sugar producer Tate & Lyle dropped 6.2 per cent to 605p after warning of modest profits growth from its zero calorie sweetener Splenda .
unused1 Its shares moved up 5.3 per cent to 208 3/4p after Credit Suisse upgraded to " outperfrom " and set a 250p target price .
unused1 Vodafone set for $5.5bn dividend
Vodafone could receive an annual dividend of up to $5.5bn from its 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless beginning next year , said Andy Halford , Vodafone chief financial officer , on Wednesday .
The dividend estimate is based on the $1bn a month or $12bn a year in free cash flow that Verizon Wireless generates , cash that to date has been mainly used to pay down debt .
Verizon Wireless , the largest US mobile operator , stopped paying a dividend to its corporate parents , Verizon Communications and Vodafone , in 2005 .
Vodafone set for service revenue dip
Vodafone is expected to report that service revenue growth turned negative in the second quarter when it announces half-year results tomorrow , writes Daniel Thomas .
unused1 The telecoms group 's service revenues might have fallen 0.7 per cent in the second quarter against a year ago , with declines expected of about 12 per cent in southern European countries such as Spain and Italy .
unused1 The UK is expected to have suffered a moderate decline in service revenues , although countered by an increase of about 3 per cent in Germany .
unused1 The strongest performance is expected from Turkey , where revenues might be as much as a fifth higher , and from its stake in the US , where Verizon Wireless has reported service revenue growth of 7.5 per cent .
unused1 First-half margins are expected to be slightly lower at about 31 per cent , with falling European margins likely to be offset by expansion in South Africa and India .
unused1 Consensus first-half earnings are put at pound(s)6.8bn , a 10 per cent decline but mostly owing to foreign exchange movements .
unused1 Stripping out this , analysts expect group ebitda to be down about 2.5 per cent in the first half .
If the competition authorities approve plans for a merger between France Telecom 's Orange UK and Deutsche Telekom 's TMobile UK , the new entity would become the market leader , with O2 in second place .
Ben Wood , analyst at CCS Insight , said Vodafone would be the biggest loser from a merger between Orange UK and T-Mobile UK , which are the third and fourth-largest mobile operators respectively .
Meanwhile , analysts said O2 's chances of retaining its status as the exclusive UK network for Apple 's popular iPhone have been diminished by the merger plans involving Orange UK and T-Mobile UK .
unused1 The French and German companies are expected to argue that the pound(s)3.5bn ( $5.8bn ) of cost savings sought in the merger should enable higher investment in networks that will support web surfing and other data activities on mobile phones and laptops .
Vodafone shares drop on news of UK profits fall
Vodafone 's shares fell more than 4 per cent yesterday after the mobile phone group revealed how the profitability of its UK business had been hurt by a dash for top-line growth .
unused1 The shares dipped 5.5 per cent in mid-afternoon trading after the disclosure that the UK margin on earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation had declined from 34 per cent in the six months to March 31 last year to 26.6 per cent in the five months to February 28 this year .
Mr Sarin sought to allay investor concern by drawing attention to Vodafone 's guidance last May that the group 's ebitda margin would fall by one percentage point in 2006-07 compared with 2005-06 .
Cuts in Vodafone 's tariffs have bolstered revenue growth , partly by attracting new customers .
unused1 Service revenue growth increased 5 per cent in January and February compared with the same period last year .
unused1 " The UK margins are weaker than expected and , while revenue growth is stronger , we doubt it will be able to sustain this higher growth rate for long , " said Martin Mabbutt , analyst at Nomura , who has a " buy " rating on the stock .
unused1 Analysts at Morgan Stanley downgraded their recommendation on Vodafone 's shares from " buy " to " sell " after concluding that intervention by the European Commission could reduce core profits at Vodafone 's European mobile businesses by Pounds 900m ( Dollars 1.78bn ) between 2009 and 2012 .
Meanwhile , Vodafone also had a further setback in its efforts to secure control of Vodacom , South Africa 's leading mobile operator .
unused1 He estimated progressive cuts between 2009 and 2012 would reduce Vodafone 's European earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation by 11 per cent , or Pounds 900m .
unused1 That would equate to a 8 per cent cut in the group 's ebitda .
US telecoms group Verizon denied it was considering a bid for Vodafone , halting a rally across Europe 's telecom sector .
They were most bearish on Telecom Italia , TeliaSonera and France Telecom , cutting UBS ratings on all three companies ' stock to " sell " .
unused1 UBS analysts cut their target price for the shares to EUR0.45.
unused1 Analysts lowered their target on the shares to SKr38 .
France Telecom , meanwhile , saw its target price lowered to EUR6.80.
unused1 Analysts at JPMorgan increased their target on the Danish bank 's shares from DKr120 to DKr125 , giving the stock an " overweight " rating .
Vodafone officials also talked up the prospect that it would once again receive dividends from Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator in which it has a 45 per cent stake .
Verizon Communications , Verizon Wireless 's controlling shareholder , has been blocking dividends since 2005 , but Vodafone said it was likely that payments would resume in 2012 .
unused1 Vodafone sold its Japanese mobile business to Softbank in 2006 for pound(s)6.8bn in cash .
Vodafone will use an initial payment of pound(s)1.6bn by Softbank next month to reduce the UK group 's net debt .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , predicted for the first time that the group could achieve annual revenue growth of up to 4 per cent over the next three years .
unused1 The company reported revenue of pound(s)22.6bn for the six months to September 30 , up 3.9 per cent year on year .
unused1 Adjusted operating profit , which excludes impairments , rose 2.7 per cent to pound(s)6.1bn.
Vodafone 's net income rose 56.5 per cent to pound(s)7.5bn , and was boosted by the sale of its 3 per cent stake in China Mobile .
unused1 The interim dividend rose 7.1 per cent to 2.85p.
unused1 Vodafone 's EUR8bn ( $11.4bn ) sale to Vivendi of a 44 per cent stake in the French mobile phone business SFR , announced on Monday , is the biggest in a series of disposals of minority holdings .
Analysts broadly agreed that Vodafone secured a good price for its stake in SFR , given that Vivendi - which owned the remaining shares in the group - had been reported to be unwilling to pay more than pound(s)6bn ( $9.7bn ) .
unused1 The SFR deal will allow Vodafone to pay down debt , which , according to Merrill Lynch , will give the company " a huge credit tailwind in a sector starved of credit improvement stories " .
Verizon Wireless has not paid a dividend since 2005 , after its parent insisted that cash generated be used to pay down debt .
Last month it paid pound(s)3.1bn to buy out a minority 33 per cent stake in Vodafone Essar in India .
unused1 Its shares rallied 3.4 per cent to 139 1/2 p following solid results from US peer AT&T and on " buy " advice from Citigroup .
Platinum miner Lonmin slipped 0.5 per cent to pound(s)16.82 after giving a cautious outlook with sales numbers that , while they met expectations , showed weaker output than expected .
Potash Corp shares rose to a four-month high overnight in spite of a profit warning from the Canadian group .
BP was said to be examining a bid for Kosmos Energy 's holding in the Jubilee field , offshore Ghana .
A downbeat trading statement sent National Express lower by 4.5 per cent to 397p , its first decline in four days , with the group flagging up a fall in profit at its American operations .
Nevertheless , National Express 's statement suggested that it would press on with a rights issue and ignore the merger proposal from Stagecoach , up 1.8 per cent to 162 1/2 p.
NTT DoCoMo , with sales four times larger , expects only a 10 per cent return on capital this year .
unused1 Admittedly earnings forecasts for next year should fallby 5-8 per cent .
unused1 The tax rate will now be in the low , rather than mid thirties , boosting earnings by about 5 per cent .
unused1 Adjusting for an accounting change , organic proportionate mobile sales growth was at the top end of guidance of 6-6.5 per cent .
unused1 Few eyebrows were raised at the Pounds 4.3bn impairment charge in Germany , nor at the footnote explaining that this assumed 5 per cent annual ebitda declines until 2011 .
unused1 Mr Sarin was keen to point out that the Pounds 2.6bn acquisition of Turkey 's Telsim is outperforming its budget .
unused1 Chairman Sir John Bond used his first public outing to highlight growth beyond Europe .
unused1 The snag is that at its rate of 1.1m proportionate 3G additions each quarter , it would take 35 years to penetrate the existing user base .
unused1 Organic sales growth is an impressive 9 per cent , helped by emerging markets .
However , Vodafone bounced back to finish 1 per cent higher at 157.6p after Credit Suisse issued a"trading buy " recommendation and said the company was the frontrunner to land the European iPhonecontract .
On a more fundamental tack , Enterprise Inns recovered some of Friday 's losses , rising 1.9 per cent to 686 1/2p on the back of a Citigroup upgrade to " buy " .
unused1 Setting a 859p target price , the broker said if Enterprise were able to convert into a Real Estate Investment Trust , its shares would be worth 60 per cent more than the present level .
Should Enterprise fail , Citi said the downside would be limited by a Pounds 1bn share buy-back programme , which it expects to kick in over the next 18 months .
As for Antofagasta , Cazenove said the downgrade to " underperform " was based on the fact that the copper miner looked expensive against its peer group .
Vodafone to double dividend and increase share buyback
Vodafone yesterday said it would double its dividend and further increase its share buyback programme in a firm sign that the mobile operator has listened to shareholder demands to raise its cash payouts .
unused1 The increases will take its dividend payouts for the financial year to Pounds 2.8bn , giving it a healthy yield - based on yesterday 's share price close - of almost 3 per cent .
unused1 The company also raised its share buyback programme from Pounds 3bn to Pounds 4bn .
Vodafone reported a 6 per cent rise in underlying group turnover to Pounds 16.8bn for the six months to the end of September as it continued to add users to its global customer base .
unused1 The growth , slightly ahead of consensus expectations , was driven by 7.4m new customers in the first half , taking its global base to 146.7m.
unused1 However , some analysts pointed to evidence of a slowdown in revenue growth in key markets such as Italy , a trend they attributed to increasing competition from new entrants such as 3 .
unused1 The bigger-than-expected dividend increase underlines the company 's continued ability to deliver strong free cash flow .
unused1 Over the period , the company delivered a pre-tax profit on ordinary activities before exceptionals of Pounds 5.4bn.
unused1 Group earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation were 6 per cent higher at Pounds 8.3bn.
Vodafone is to plough back a pound(s)2.1bn dividend from US telecoms group Verizon into its business rather than offer shareholders a windfall , after the UK mobile operator reported its biggest annual fall in service revenues in five years .
unused1 Vittorio Colao , chief executive , blamed weakness in southern European markets for revenues for the year to March 31 falling to pound(s)44.4bn , down 4.2 per cent - or pound(s)2bn - from the previous year .
unused1 It blamed regulatory cuts to mobile termination rates - wholesale charges to rival providers for connecting calls - as well as the continued decline in voice revenues .
unused1 Vodafone said that the pound(s)2.1bn Verizon dividend was " to be retained in the business for general business purposes , including spectrum costs " - a move that quashes speculation of a new share buyback scheme after the current programme expires in July .
For the 12 months to March 31 , Vodafone reported that pre-tax profit slipped from pound(s)9.6bn to pound(s)3.3bn.
unused1 Excluding the impact of exceptional charges , adjusted operating profit rose 9.3 per cent year on year to pound(s)12bn .
unused1 Diluted earnings per share contracted from 13.65p to 0.87p , and a final dividend of 6.92p was proposed compared with 6.47p last year , bringing the total payout for the year to 10.19p , up 7 per cent .
Vodafone , which employs 4,300 people in Spain , declined to say how many jobs were at risk at its operations in the country , where revenues fell 11 per cent in the six months to September last year .
In November , Vodafone was forced to write down pound(s)5.9bn from the value of its businesses in Spain , Italy and Greece , dragging the operator to a first-half pre-tax loss of pound(s)492m - down from an pound(s)8bn profit in the year before .
Vodafone has already implemented reductions to salaries and working days at its Spanish operations to cut costs as revenues have continued to fall .
Vodafone has been forced to write down almost pound(s)6bn from its operations in southern Europe , taking the shine off a pound(s)2.4bn cash dividend from its stake in Verizon Wireless in the US .
unused1 The company will return more than 60 per cent of that dividend to shareholders through a pound(s)1.5bn share buyback .
However , shares in Vodafone fell almost 3 per cent yesterday to 162.5p after it revealed a pound(s)492m pre-tax loss following a deterioration in many of Europe 's mobile telephony markets .
unused1 Service revenues - adjusted for acquisition activity and foreign exchange - fell by 0.4 per cent to pound(s)20.2bn , after a drop of almost 10 per cent in revenues in southern Europe .
unused1 On a reported basis , group revenue was down 7.4 per cent to pound(s)21.8bn.
unused1 The pre-tax loss of pound(s)492m compares with an pound(s)8bn profit last year .
unused1 The company reported a basic loss per share of 4.01p.
unused1 Adjusted operating profit improved , rising 8.5 per cent to pound(s)6.2bn.
Last week Vodafone had added 3.4 per cent on news that it was in discussions over the future of its Verizon Wireless venture , which does not currently pay a dividend .
Mr Seidenberg told reporters that , while Verizon would like to find a way to " resolve " Vodafone 's minority stake in the venture , a union was not on the agenda .
RBS spotted seven Arm designs in the iPad , suggesting the chip company will earn royalties of 45 cents per unit or 35 cents for the wi-fi version .
Hargreaves Lansdown gained 5.2 per cent to 347p after Numis raised forecasts and repeated " buy " advice in an otherwise cautious review of the wealth manager .
Vodafone was one of the first blue-chip companies to report the impact of international accounting standards and reveal one of the most substantial increases in net debt .
unused1 Restating its books for September last year , the mobile phone operator said that net debt of Pounds 8.7bn under UK accounting standards would rise by 27 per cent to Pounds 11.1bn under international accounting rules .
Previously , the joint venture had appeared in the accounts as if it was 100 per cent owned but the new treatment meant Vodafone stopped recognising assets that effectively belonged to its partner , pushing net debt higher .
unused1 A further Pounds 880m rise in debt came from the reclassification of preference shares , which are branded as debt under IFRS .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , is under pressure from investors after warning last November of declining profit margins in 2006 and reduced revenue growth and lower free cash flow in 2007 .
unused1 A survey of 17 analysts by Reuters published last week found average underlying earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of Pounds 11.64bn for Vodafone 's 2006 fiscal year compared to Pounds 10.74bn in 2005 .
But Vodafone will report massive post-exceptional pre-tax losses following its decision in February to take a goodwill write-down on its historic investments of up to Pounds 28bn , a record for a British company .
unused1 The survey found underlying revenues of Pounds 29.28bn compared to Pounds 26.68bn in 2005 .
unused1 Profit is expected at Pounds 9m ( Pounds 15.8m ) while the dividend should rise to 10.5p ( 9.5p ) .
*Vedanta is due to unveil its half-year results and the market is expecting another big jump in profit from the India-based mining group .
Vodafone is willing to consider more acquisitions in emerging markets after concluding a deal to secure control of Hutchison Essar , India 's fourth largest mobile operator .
Vodafone is buying companies that control 67 per cent of Hutchison Essar from Hutchison Telecommunications International ( HTIL ) in a deal that gives the Indian operator an enterprise value of Dollars 18.8bn ( Pounds 9.7bn ) .
After deducting debt attributable to certain holding companies , Vodafone has agreed to pay Dollars 11.1bn in cash to HTIL , which is a subsidiary of Hutchison Whampoa , the Hong Kong-based conglomerate .
Vodafone is assuming net debt of Dollars 2bn with the deal .
unused1 The group 's net debt will increase to up to Pounds 23.3bn by March 31 , although it expects to retain its existing A- rating .
Vodafone is also offering to buy the 33 per cent of Hutchison Essar held by Essar , an Indian conglomerate .
unused1 Vodafone would pay Essar Dollars 5.7bn.
Some investors who were sharply critical of Vodafone 's acquisitions strategy last year , after the group warned of slowing growth , yesterday said obtaining control of Hutchison Essar was " a sensible deal " .
Ericsson , the mobile handset maker , said nothing new or surprising in its second-quarter earnings report , but the stock got carried away with the sour mood , tumbling 11.1 per cent to SKr66.80.
Making its debut in Paris , GDF Suez , the utility formed by the merger of Gaz de France and Suez , fell 4 per cent to EUR42 , but Suez Environnement , the water and waste utility spun off from the merger , leapt 29.3 per cent to EUR18.10.
Vodafone weighs bid for German cable group
UK operator considers making move for KDG ; Signs of consolidation in European sector
Vodafone , the UK telecoms operator , has discussed a bid for Kabel Deutschland , Germany 's largest cable operator , amid signs that consolidation in Europe 's fragmented cable sector is gaining momentum .
Vodafone 's senior management has been weighing up a potential bid for the German group , two people with knowledge of the situation told the Financial Times , although they stressed that the UK company had made no decision and had not approached KDG .
The revelation comes only days after Liberty Global further bolstered its role in the European cable market with the acquisition of Virgin Media in the UK .
unused1 The US group cut its teeth as a European consolidator in Germany in 2011 , when it bought Kabel BW and merged it with Unity Media , which it already owned .
At the end of its last quarter , KDG had net debt of EUR2.8bn , giving it an enterprise value of EUR8.4bn.
KDG had 13.9m subscriptions last year , compared with its rival 's 10.9m.
unused1 Both reported strong sales growth and quarterly revenues of about EUR450m .
Vodafone , which set up the unit as part of its 1999 acquisition of Germany 's Mannesmann , had estimated the cost of losing the case at more than pound(s)2bn .
Vodafone has been forced to write down almost pound(s)6bn from its operations in economically ravaged countries in southern Europe , taking the shine off a pound(s)2.4bn cash dividend from its stake in Verizon Wireless in the US .
unused1 The company will return more than 60 per cent of that dividend to shareholders through a pound(s)1.5bn share buyback .
However , shares in Vodafone fell almost 3 per cent yesterday to 162.5p after it revealed a further deterioration in many of Europe 's mobile telephony markets that resulted in a pound(s)492m pre-tax loss .
unused1 Service revenues - adjusted for acquisition activity and foreign exchange - declined by 0.4 per cent to pound(s)20.2bn , dragged down by a fall of almost 10 per cent in revenues in southern Europe , where its businesses in Spain , Italy and Greece are fighting against worsening economic conditions .
unused1 On a reported basis , group revenue was down 7.4 per cent to pound(s)21.8bn.
unused1 The pre-tax loss of pound(s)492m compares with an pound(s)8bn profit last year .
unused1 The company reported a basic loss per share of 4.01p.
unused1 Adjusted operating profit improved , rising 8.5 per cent to pound(s)6.2bn.
unused1 The interim dividend of 3.27p a share has been raised 7.2 per cent .
Vodafone said data revenues rose by 13.7 per cent .
unused1 However , revenues from voice and text fell in the period .
A push by Tesco to boost sales during the Christmas period by issuing pound(s)100m of money-saving vouchers to members of its loyalty scheme helped Britain 's largest retailer achieve what it described as its best festive season performance for three years .
Tesco reported UK sales growth , in stores open at least a year , of 4.9 per cent in the six weeks to January 9 , ahead of analysts ' expectations of about 3 per cent expansion and the 2.8 per cent increase in the third quarter .
unused1 Stripping out the promotion under an accounting standard for loyalty schemes , UK like-for-like sales growth was 4.1 per cent in the festive season .
unused1 Group sales rose 6.9 per cent , with international sales 2.4 per cent higher , or 4.1 per cent excluding the effect of currency movements .
unused1 In the fledgling US business , sales rose 35 per cent , excluding exchange rates .
unused1 But US like-for-like sales had risen in the " mid-teen " level , Mr McIlwee said .
Weak revenues prompt Vodafone to heighten cost-cutting efforts
unused1 Chief likely to raise pound(s)1bn reduction target ; Revenues hit by curbed spending on mobiles
His willingness to raise the pound(s)1bn target came after Vodafone 's 2008-09 results highlighted revenue weakness .
Vodafone reported a 15.6 per cent rise in revenue to pound(s)41bn for the year to March 31 and a 16.7 per cent increase in operating profit before one-off items to pound(s)11.8bn.
unused1 On an underlying basis , revenue fell 0.4 per cent as consumers in western and emerging markets spent less on their mobile phones .
Pre-tax profit fell 53.5 per cent to pound(s)4.2bn , mainly because of pound(s)5.9bn of impairment charges largely relating to Vodafone 's underperforming Spanish and Turkish businesses .
For the first time in a set of full-year results , underlying revenue fell at Vodafone 's European businesses , which contribute more than 70 per cent of sales .
unused1 The full-year dividend rose 3.5 per cent to 7.77p.
unused1 Basic earnings per share fell 53.5 per cent to 5.81p.
unused1 Operating profit should be pound(s)11bn-11.8bn in 2009-10 .
unused1 In the first five weeks of its financial year ( since February 23 ) , like-for-like sales grew at 4 per cent .
The latest British Retail Consortium figures indicate overall retail sales fell 1.6 per cent in March , with sales of food ( Tesco 's strongpoint ) slowing .
